BUDGET SPEECH
FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/2026

THEME:
Full Monetization of the Ugandan 
Economy through Commercial 
Agriculture, Industrialization, 
Expanding and Broadening 
Services, Digital Transformation 
and Market Access

DELIVERED AT THE 2ND SITTING OF THE 1ST MEETING OF THE 5TH SESSION OF THE 11TH 
PARLIAMENT OF UGANDA: THURSDAY 12TH JUNE 2025, AT KOLOLO INDEPENDENCE GROUNDS

BY 
Matia Kasaija (MP)

Minister of Finance, Planning and Economic Development

June 2025

i

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26









PREAMBLE

Your Excellency the President, 
Your Excellency the Vice President, 
Right Honourable Speaker of Parliament, 
Your Lordship the Chief Justice, 
Right Honourable Deputy Speaker of Parliament, 
Your Lordship the Deputy Chief Justice,
The Vice Chairman of the NRM Party, 
The Right Honourable Prime Minister,
Right Honourable Deputy Prime Ministers,  
Honourable Ministers, 
Your Excellencies, the Ambassadors, and Heads of Diplomatic Missions, 
Honourable Members of Parliament, 
Former National Leaders,
Cultural Leaders,
Religious Leaders,
Distinguished Guests, 
Ladies and Gentlemen.

iv

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



I. INTRODUCTION

1.	 Madam Speaker, in fulfilment of Article 155(1) of the Constitution and on behalf 
of His Excellency the President, I present to Parliament and to the people of 
Uganda, the Budget for the Financial Year 2025/26 as approved by Parliament.

2.	 Madam Speaker, in this Speech, I will:
i)	 Provide accountability to the People of Uganda on the performance of 

the commitments made by the NRM Government for the first half of the 
Uganda Vision 2040;  

ii)	 Present the recent performance of the economy and outlook; 
iii)	 Account to the people of Uganda on the commitments that Government 

made for the FY 2024/25 that is coming to an end in a few days and 
priority areas of the Budget for FY 2025/26; and

iv)	 Highlight the financing strategy for the FY 2025/26 Budget.

II. ACCOUNTABILITY ON THE PERFORMANCE OF THE COMMITMENTS MADE 
BY THE NRM GOVERNMENT FOR THE FIRST HALF OF UGANDA VISION 2040

3.	 Madam Speaker, let me first congratulate His Excellency the President on his 
leadership that has built a resilient, stable, transformative and competitive 
economy that is attractive to investors. Uganda is among the fastest growing 
economies in the world and is projected to become the fastest growing by 2031, 
according to the Harvard Growth Lab. This is despite the various domestic, 
regional and global shocks that have impacted us in recent years. The growth 
is on account of a unique economic ideology championed by His Excellency the 
President, which is built on the four principles of socio-economic transformation, 
patriotism, Pan-Africanism and democracy.  

4.	 Madam Speaker, the first half of Uganda Vision 2040 started in 2010 with the 
implementation of the first five-year National Development Plan (NDPI), and 
thereafter NDPII and NDPIII, which ends this financial year. The initial years 
of the NRM Government before 2010 were dedicated to restoring sustainable 
peace, recovering and stabilising a broken economy, addressing extreme 
poverty and implementing reforms that liberalised the economy, and created 
an environment for private sector to flourish. We are now in the phase of socio-
economic transformation to facilitate wealth creation and prosperity. Your 
Excellency, I thank and commend you for this.

5.	 Madam Speaker, the budget for financial year 2025/26 will conclude the 
implementation of the current NRM Manifesto and start the implementation 
of the Fourth National Development Plan (NDPIV). For the next 15 years, the 
successive National Development Plans will implement the Tenfold Economic 
Growth Strategy. This strategy aims to expand the size of the economy to 

1

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



USD 500 billion by 2040, from USD 61.3 billion estimated this financial year 
2024/25.

6.	 Madam Speaker, over the accountability period, Government has undertaken 
targeted investments that have built a firm foundation and strengthened the 
resilience of our economy. I wish to highlight the following achievements:
i)	 Total peace, security of person and property, and political stability have 

been the foundation upon which sustained high economic growth and 
wealth creation have been built. 

ii)	 The economy more than tripled to Shs 226.3 trillion, equivalent to USD 
61.3 billion, this financial year 2024/25, from Shs 64.8 trillion, equivalent 
to USD 27.9 billion, in FY2010/11; 

iii)	 In March 2024 Uganda met the criteria for graduation from the category 
of Least Developed Countries (LDCs). 

iv)	 Life expectancy has improved to 68.2 years in FY 2023/24 from 63.3 years 
in 2010/11 and from 50.4 years in 2002. This has been partly driven 
by improvements in access to health services, massive immunisation 
campaigns that reduced disease prevalence and child mortality. 

v)	 The population living within a 5 kilometre radius of a health facility is 
now 91 percent, from about 80 percent in FY 2010/11; and 81 percent of 
parishes now have government-aided schools. 

vi)	 Poverty has decreased to 16.1 percent in FY 2023/24 from 24.5 percent 
in FY 2010/11. In addition, Madam Speaker, persons in the subsistence 
economy reduced to 33 percent in FY 2023/24 from 69 percent in FY 
2010/11.

vii)	 Madam Speaker, Uganda is becoming a more equal society. The results of 
the National Household Survey released by the Uganda Bureau of Statistics 
last month show that income inequality has declined significantly in the 
past four years. The Gini coefficient, which is a statistical measure used 
to determine the extent of income inequality within a population, has 
reduced to 38 percent from 41 percent in 2020. 

viii)	 Madam Speaker, Ugandans can now connect to all borders on tarmac 
and reach all parts of the country, East, West, South, and North, by 
tarmac or improved murram roads.

ix)	 Installed electricity generation capacity increased fourfold to 2,051 
megawatts in FY 2023/24, from 595 megawatts in FY 2010/11. 
Consequently, the proportion of the population with access to electricity 
increased fivefold to 57 percent in FY 2023/24 from 11 percent in FY 
2010/11. 

x)	 The percentage of the population subscribed to the internet rose to 53 
percent in 2022, from 1.8 percent in 2010, and the National ICT Backbone 
infrastructure extended to 4,300 kilometres in FY  2022/23, from 1,380 
kilometres in FY 2010/11. 

2

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



xi)	 The economy has diversified from the traditional 3Cs which are coffee, 
cotton and copper and 3Ts, which are tobacco, tea and tourism, to a more 
sophisticated economy. For example, Uganda has added 31 new products 
to its export basket in the last 15 years, including light manufactured 
products such as steel, processed food, cement, pharmaceuticals, dairy 
products, ceramics, and cloth. 

xii)	 The number of manufacturing units (factories of various sizes) has 
increased by about 18,000 from 31,757 in 2010/11 to 50,000 in 2023/24. 
As a result, this has increased the share of manufactured exports 
significantly. 

7.	 Madam Speaker, Uganda’s economy has been able to achieve all these milestones 
on account of the right strategy of the NRM Government. 

8.	 Madam Speaker, since the necessary foundation has already been established 
by intentionally prioritising investments in infrastructure, the speed of economic 
transformation is destined to be faster in the medium term. 

9.	 Madam Speaker, the budget for next financial year, and over the medium term, 
is focused on people and wealth creation. Consequently, the theme of next 
financial year 2025/26 remains “Full Monetisation of Uganda’s Economy 
through Commercial Agriculture, Industrialisation, Expanding and 
Broadening Services, Digital Transformation and Market Access”.

III. RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK 

10.	 Madam Speaker, our economy has strengthened its resilience to domestic and 
external shocks, and is estimated to grow by 6.3 percent this financial year 
2024/25. This is after recording growth of 8.6 percent in the third quarter 
of this financial year. Last financial year 2023/24 the economy grew by 6.1 
percent. 

11.	 In nominal terms, the size of the economy is estimated at Shs 226.3 trillion, 
equivalent to USD 61.3 billion, in financial year 2024/25 rising from Shs 
203.7 trillion, equivalent to USD 53.9 billion, in financial year 2023/24. This is 
equivalent to USD 174.2 billon in Purchasing Power Parity terms.

12.	 Madam Speaker, this growth was broad-based, including in agriculture, industry 
and services like ICT. This was on account of continued implementation of 
Government interventions, and sound fiscal and monetary policies that have 
supported private sector investment.

13.	 Madam Speaker, the impressive economic performance has been driven by His 
Excellency the President’s commitment and deliberate investment in wealth 
creation initiatives. I thank His Excellency the President for setting the tone, 
and for providing leadership and direction.  

3

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



14.	 Madam Speaker, Government has invested over Shs 9 trillion in key wealth 
creation initiatives over the last 10 years. These include: Uganda Development 
Bank (Shs 1.45 trillion), the Parish Development Model (Shs 3.3 trillion by end 
of FY 2024/25), Emyooga (Shs 553 billion), the Youth Livelihood Programme 
(Shs 207.95 billion), the Small Business Recovery Fund, (Shs 100 billion), 
the Agricultural Credit Facility (Shs 495 billion), the Youth Venture Capital 
Fund (Shs 12.5 billion), Uganda Women Entrepreneurship Programme (Shs 
168 billion), the INVITE Project (Shs 800 billion), the GROW Project (Shs 824 
billion), and Uganda Development Corporation (Shs 1.2 trillion), among others.  

15.	 Madam Speaker, the economy is expected to grow faster by at least 7.0 percent 
next financial year 2025/26, and to double digits at the onset of oil and gas 
production. The size of the economy is projected to expand to Shs 254.2 trillion, 
equivalent to USD 66.1 billion, in financial year 2025/26. This will translate 
into a higher GDP per capita of USD 1,324 next financial year compared to 
USD 1,263 GDP estimated for this financial year ending 30th June 2025.

Inflation

16.	 Madam Speaker, inflation is under control. For the year ending May 2025, 
the speed at which prices of goods and services rose slowed to 3.4 percent, 
compared to 4.1 percent in the same period a year ago. 

17.	 The slower pace of the increase in domestic prices was due to: good export 
performance and FDI inflows which led to a stable shilling; increased food 
production driven by good weather and the Parish Development Model (PDM), 
and the close coordination of the fiscal and monetary policies. In addition, a 
reduction in the global prices of petroleum products also contributed to the 
lower prices. The country has been able to benefit from these lower global 
prices because of the direct importation of petroleum products by the Uganda 
National Oil Company (UNOC), which removed middlemen in the petroleum 
supply chain. 

18.	 Therefore, inflation is expected to remain below the policy target of 5 percent 
per annum.

Exchange Rate

19.	 Madam Speaker, despite global uncertainties, the Uganda shilling has been 
among the few most stable currencies in Africa. The shilling appreciated by 
4.0 percent year-on-year in April 2025 compared to the same month in 2024. 
Uganda’s shilling has been ranked the most stable currency in Africa, according 
to the International Financial Statistics (IFS) division of the IMF. This resilience 
is due to good export performance, strong inflows of foreign direct investment 
and tourism receipts.

4

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



Interest Rates

20.	 Madam Speaker, the price of money has reduced to an average of 17.7 percent 
per year in March 2025 from 18.1 percent in November 2024. This decline was 
partly driven by the slight reduction in the Bank of Uganda reference interest 
rate and increased lending at lower interest rates to lower-risk borrowers.

Private Sector Credit

21.	 Madam Speaker, the stock of private sector credit grew to Shs 23.3 trillion in 
March 2025 from Shs 21.9 trillion in June 2024. This represents growth of 
6.4 percent. Although this is low, it is expected to increase as private sector 
activity and household demand continue to recover.

22.	 Madam Speaker, contrary to conventional economics that Government 
borrowing crowds out private sector credit, Uganda’s Government borrowing 
has instead availed cheaper and patient capital to the private sector engaged 
in wealth creation initiatives. Government borrows from commercial banks at 
relatively higher rates and avails financing to the private sector in strategic 
sectors at relatively low or no interest rates. 

23.	 Government has provided direct credit to the private sector and households 
to supplement credit from commercial banks and other financial institutions, 
through PDM, Emyooga, youth and women livelihood funds, and women 
enterprise support funds totalling Shs 9.1 trillion, which is equivalent to 3.6 
percent of total domestic economic output in financial year 2024/25. 

External Sector Development

24.	 Madam Speaker, total exports of goods and services for the 12 months to March 
2025 is USD 11.8 billion from USD 9.56 billion for the same period in 2024. 
Of this, exports of goods were USD 9.3 billion for the same period, up from 
USD 7.3 billion in March 2024, representing growth of 26 percent. The top 
exports include gold (USD 3.8 billion); coffee (USD 1.83 billion), which alone 
had an annual average growth of 84.9 percent; industrial products (USD 626.5 
million); cocoa beans (USD 410.8 million); milk products (USD 285 million); 
base metals and products (USD 230.60 million); sugar (USD 186.5 million); 
fish and fish products (USD 177.7 million); maize (USD 86.37 million); and 
other agricultural products like tea, tobacco, cotton, beans, fruits, vegetables, 
flowers, simsim (sesame), nuts, vanilla, and other grains giving USD 575.9 
million. 

25.	 Madam Speaker, this financial year, for the first time in the history of Uganda, 
coffee export earnings not only exceeded the one-billion-dollar mark but are 
on track to double to USD 2 billion per year. While it took the country more 
than a century to reach USD 1 billion earnings per annum from coffee, it has 
taken just one year to double these earnings. This is an example of the kind 

5

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



of economic leap envisioned under the Tenfold Growth Strategy.   I therefore 
implore Ugandans to grow more coffee and, most importantly, add value to our 
coffee before we export it for higher earnings. 

26.	 Madam Speaker, for the year ending March 2025, the Middle East was Uganda’s 
top export destination, followed by the EAC, Asia and the European Union. 
Uganda recorded large trade surpluses with the Middle East worth USD 186.3 
million and the European Union worth USD 117.7 million. The main export 
commodities to these markets were coffee, industrial and mineral products.

27.	 Madam Speaker, I wish to note that His Excellency the President’s message 
and deliberate strategy of increasing the share of manufactured exports in total 
exports has started producing positive results. New research by the Harvard 
Economic Growth Lab shows that Uganda has become more complex for its 
level of income. This means that, while earnings from traditional exports like 
coffee are significantly increasing, their contribution to the total export basket 
is declining. New products that require more advanced production technology 
than that expected for our level of income are contributing an increasing share 
of our total exports. 

28.	 According to the study, in the last 15 years, Uganda added 31 new products 
to its export basket. Among these are ICT equipment, serums and vaccines, 
medicines, new pneumatic tires, batteries, gas turbines, electronic integrated 
circuits, transmission apparatus for radio, telephone and TV, measuring 
instruments, and instruments for physical and chemical analysis, and light 
manufactured products such as steel, processed food, cement, pharmaceuticals, 
dairy products, ceramics, and cloth. The country also has an opportunity of 
harnessing the production of 50 new complex products which are referred to 
as strategic bets. 

Tourism and Foreign Direct Investment

29.	 Madam Speaker, tourism earnings have grown by 13.1 percent to USD 1.52 
billion in 12 months to March 2025, from USD 1.36 billion during the same 
period in 2024. This impressive growth is attributed to the sustainable peace, 
increased competitiveness of Uganda’s tourism industry and Government 
investment in strategic tourism infrastructure, including Uganda Airlines. 
Remittances from Ugandans living and working abroad were USD 1.4 billion 
12 months to March 2025, compared to USD 1.33 billion in the same period in 
2024. 

30.	 Madam Speaker, Uganda has maintained its top ranking as one of the best 
investment destinations in Africa. Foreign direct investments were worth 
USD 3.48 billion in twelve months to March 2025, compared to USD 2.99 
billion during the same period in 2024. This performance was due to improved 
competitiveness of the economy.

6

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



Fiscal Performance

31.	 Madam Speaker, revenue collection is projected at Shs 31.9 trillion this 
financial year ending June 2025, equivalent to about 14.3 percent of total 
domestic economic output or GDP. Total expenditure outturn is estimated at 
Shs 51.53 trillion this financial year, excluding Bank of Uganda securities 
and domestic refinancing (debt rollover). The budget deficit is estimated at 7.6 
percent of GDP.

32.	 Madam Speaker, Government plans to collect Shs 37.2 trillion in domestic 
revenue next financial year 2025/26. This will finance about 60 percent of the 
national budget. The rest of the budget will be financed through borrowing and 
grants.

33.	 Madam Speaker, Government has stepped up efforts to mobilise domestic 
revenue. Going forward, emphasis will be put on the following: 
i)	 Broadening the tax base through strategic investment in the opportunities 

in agro-industry, tourism, minerals including oil and gas, science, 
technology and innovation including ICT, as well as interventions that 
support wealth creation and the growth of small and medium enterprises; 

ii)	 Eliminating corruption at URA through punishing corrupt officers 
and taxpayers who collude with URA staff as well as leveraging digital 
platforms to minimise human interaction; 

iii)	 Enhancing implementation of Electronic Fiscal Receipting and Invoicing 
Solution (EFRIS), digital tax stamps, rental tax solution and regular 
audits, especially for transfer pricing; 

iv)	 Combatting smuggling at border points through extended surveillance 
using advanced technologies like scanners, drones and tracking systems, 
with increased patrols in high-risk areas;

v)	 Rationalising tax exemptions to focus on only those that support industrial 
policy, and introducing sunset clauses;

vi)	 Amending tax laws to close loopholes that cause revenue leakage, and 
providing clarity to encourage voluntary compliance;

vii)	 Strengthening URA, including recruitment and training of tax officers to 
effectively administer tax collection; and 

viii)	 Supporting Local Governments and revenue-generating public entities to 
increase revenue collection. 

7

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



IV. ACCOUNTABILITY FOR FINANCIAL YEAR 2024/25 AND 
PRIORITIES FOR FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26 

34.	 Madam Speaker, when I delivered the Budget Speech for FY 2024/25, I made 
several commitments on Government expenditure priorities for the financial 
year. In February 2025, I presented a detailed Semi-Annual Budget Performance 
Report of this financial year to Parliament in line with the law. In this section, 
I provide the highlights of what Government has achieved this financial year to 
date. 

35.	 Madam Speaker, with respect to investing in the people of Uganda, the following 
has been achieved: 

Health

36.	 Madam Speaker, during this financial year 2024/25, the following milestones 
have been achieved in the health sector:
i)	 Government continued to invest in saving the lives of Ugandans by 

providing Shs 721 billion for healthcare supplies, general and essential 
medicines under the National Medical Stores. This included additional 
financing of Shs 100 billion for essential medicines, Shs 116.8 billion 
for ARVs, Shs 2.9 billion for anti-malarial medicines, Shs 17.8 billion for 
immunisation supplies, Shs 52.3 billion for laboratory supplies, and Shs 
2.1 billion for anti-TB drugs.

ii)	 Government continued to improve healthcare infrastructure and 
equipment. For example: we completed, equipped and commissioned 
three Regional Blood Banks in Hoima, Arua, and Soroti; operationalised 
16 high-capacity oxygen plants across key regional referral hospitals; 
continued infrastructure development and equipping of the two specialised 
centres for cancer and cardiovascular care; infrastructure development of 
Lubowa Specialised Hospital is now at 68 percent progress and training of 
specialists is ongoing; constructed new maternity wards and staff houses 
in the Health Centre  IIs that are being upgraded to Health Centre IIIs; 
distributed 20 digital X-ray machines to General Hospitals; and installed 
CT scans in 14 out of 16 Regional Referral Hospitals.

iii)	 Government implemented interventions for preventive healthcare for 
disease prevention and promotion of healthy lifestyles. For example: 
trained and deployed Community Health Extension Workers across the 
country to deliver essential health education on hygiene and sanitation, 
nutrition and disease prevention, and to support routine immunisation 
efforts; undertook residual spraying in 13 districts, which protected the 
lives of 2.7 million people and 560,000 households against malaria;  
and introduced the malaria vaccine into the Extended Programme on 
Immunisation, targeting children under five years of age. 

iv)	 Improved digitisation of healthcare services by extending connectivity of 

8

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



the Electronic Medical Record System in four National Referral Hospitals 
and 16 Regional Referral Hospitals. This has improved patient record 
management, drug dispensing, and monitoring the attendance of health 
workers.

v)	 Strengthened the National Ambulance and Emergency Care System by 
providing additional ambulances to improve the national emergency 
response and referral system. 

37.	 Madam Speaker, to further improve the health of Ugandans, a total of Shs 5.87 
trillion has been provided next financial year 2025/26. The priority interventions 
will include: (i) Functionalising Health Centre IVs; (ii) Strengthening primary 
healthcare and community health services; (iii) Scale-up of National e-Health 
Infrastructure; (iv) Promotion of nutrition education and reproductive health; 
(v) Continued deployment of Community Health Extension Workers; (vi) 
Strengthening the National Ambulance and Emergency Referral System; and 
(vii) Construction of specialised health facilities for cancer and cardiovascular 
care. 

Education

38.	 Madam Speaker, the following milestones have been achieved in the education 
sector:
i)	 Provided access to Universal Primary Education (UPE) for 9.52 million 

learners and 995,116 learners under Universal Secondary Education 
(USE) and Universal Post O’ Level Education and Training.

ii)	 Over 5,192 students, both on degree and diploma programmes, benefitted 
from the Higher Education Students’ Loan Financing Scheme. In addition, 
4,000 learners benefitted from Government sponsorship joining public 
universities.

iii)	 A total of 166 seed schools have been constructed under the UgIFT 
Programme.

iv)	 In preparation for CHAN and AFCON27, Government has so far spent 
Shs 496.8 billion for the construction of Hoima and Akii Bua Stadia as 
well as the associated training facilities across the country. Government 
will spend a total of Shs 1.34 trillion to get these facilities completed. In 
addition, Mandela National Stadium has been upgraded, and Government 
commissioned the National High-Altitude Training Centre-Teryet, in 
Kapchorwa.

v)	 In order to improve compliance with quality standards, Government 
digitalised school inspections in all public schools and certificate awarding 
Technical, Vocational, Education and Training (TVET) institutions. 

vi)	 To improve the qualifications and skills of primary school teachers to meet 
the new minimum education requirement of degree level, Government 
has established the Uganda National Institute for Teacher Education 

9

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



(UNITE).  So far, UNITE has enrolled 1,000 students across 5 campuses, 
and has been supported to undertake staff recruitment and to take over 
the operations of 23 primary teachers’ colleges to upgrade certificate 
teachers to diploma level. 

vii)	 Rolled out the Abridged A-Level Curriculum to implement the Competence-
Based Curriculum for A-level. A total of 357,120 learners successfully 
completed the 4-year cycle under the new Lower Secondary Education 
Curriculum and are transitioning to the new A-Level Curriculum.

viii)	 Implemented the TVET reform to increase industry participation in TVET 
training and delivery. A new TVET Council, Sector Skills Councils and 
Secretariat have been established with representation from various 
sectors.

39.	 Madam Speaker, next financial year, I have provided Shs 5.04 trillion for 
priority interventions which include: (i) continuing to provide free education 
to Ugandans under UPE, USE and Universal Post O’ Level Education and 
Training; (ii) providing sponsorships and student loans for higher education; 
(iii) rehabilitation of 120 traditional secondary schools and 31 special needs 
primary schools; (iv) construction of 116 new seed schools and expansion of 61 
existing secondary schools; (v) recruitment of more teachers and non-teaching 
staff; (vi) strict enforcement of teachers’ and learners’ inspection across the 
country using an electronic system; (vii) providing textbooks and instructional 
materials to improve the textbook-to-student ratio to 1:3 from the current 1:15; 
(viii) operationalisation of Bunyoro and Busoga universities; (ix) and completion 
of the ongoing construction of stadia and training facilities ahead of CHAN and 
AFCON27.  

Social Protection 

40.	 Madam Speaker, to keep our senior citizens healthy and to actively participate in 
socio-economic activities, Government has provided Shs 811 billion, benefitting 
495,720 older persons across the country under the Social Assistance Grants 
for the Elderly Programme (SAGE). In addition, 1,741 older persons’ group 
enterprises have been funded with Government grants worth Shs 5.5 billion, 
benefitting 11,644 older persons under the Special Enterprise Grant for Older 
Persons Programme (SEGOP). 

41.	 Other social protection interventions which Government has supported include 
the following:
i)	 Youth Livelihood Programme (YLP): A total of 24,228 youth enterprises 

have been funded to the tune of Shs 191.336 billion, benefitting 271,211 
youth. The enterprises are in agriculture (38 percent), trade (32 percent), 
other services (19 percent) and others (11 percent). 

ii)	 Uganda Women Entrepreneurship Programme (UWEP): Government has 
financed 21,948 women group enterprises, benefitting 235,114 women. 

10

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



iii)	 National Special Grant for Persons with Disabilities (NSGPWD): To address 
high vulnerability and poverty levels among persons with disability, 
Government has supported 8,107 enterprises, benefitting 59,901 persons 
with disabilities.

42.	 Madam Speaker, I have provided an additional Shs 404.9 billion for social 
protection next financial year 2025/26.

Water, Sanitation and Environmental Protection

43.	 Madam Speaker, to improve the quality of life, Government continues to invest 
in the provision of safe water, improve sanitation and ensure protection of the 
environment. These include the following:
i)	 Villages in Uganda with at least one safe water source have remarkably 

increased to 8 out of every 10 villages.  Nationwide, 57,951 villages out of 
71,225 have been served with a safe water source. 

ii)	 Completed construction of 259 medium and large solar-powered water 
supply and sanitation systems and gravity flow schemes across the 
country. 

iii)	 Construction of 42 large solar-powered water supply systems is ongoing 
in Agago, Yumbe, Amudat, Kaabong, Kasese, Kakumiro, Sembabule, 
Kisoro, Rubanda, Bulambuli, Kyenkwanzi, Mubende, Kyegegwa, Buyende, 
Nakaseke, Namayingo, Rakai and Buvuma.

iv)	 With regard to clean water, construction of piped town water supply 
systems is ongoing in 32 towns. These include: Namasale, Kakingol, 
Kamuli, Ngoma Town, Lunya, Karago Phase II, Ishaka (mobilisation), 
Nyakashaka, Bukumi, Kanapa, and Odongai. Construction is also 
ongoing in Palabek-Kal, Rhino Camp, Arra-Dufile, Lubeli Refugee 
Settlement, Bolori, Nyanseke, Busaale, Kibuzi, and expansion in 2 towns 
of Kiboga and Zigoti. Other beneficiary towns are Lamwo, Lacekocot, Iri-
Iri, Lorengecora, Manafwa, Butalejja-Busolwe, Tirinyi-Kibuku-Kadama-
Budaka, Kaliro-Namungalwe, Rukungiri and Obongi.

v)	 Construction of the various water supply systems in 26 districts is 
at varying levels of physical progress. These include Manafwa Town 
Council, and installation of solar packages that is ongoing  in Losilang, 
Kasawo – phase 1, Kabura-Mwizi – phase 1, Bukumi, Bulangira and 
Kyebando-Kasimbi, and Busaale Town. Also, Government is starting the 
development of new piped water supply systems in Rubanda, Kabale, 
Alebtong, Nakasongola, and Kamuli Districts, among others. 

44.	 Madam Speaker, I have provided an additional Shs 366.1 billion next financial 
year for water resources management, climate change mitigation, natural 
resources, and environment. The priority interventions include: construction of 
water supply infrastructure to increase service in underserved communities in 
rural, urban, and refugee settlements; increasing rehabilitation and expansion 

11

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



of existing Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) infrastructure; and increasing 
forest and wetland cover. 

45.	 Madam Speaker, overall, I have allocated a total of Shs 11.44 trillion next 
financial year towards investing in the people of Uganda through health, 
education, social protection, and water and sanitation.

Wealth Creation Programmes

46.	 Madam Speaker, wealth creation programmes have proved effective in 
integrating lower-income Ugandans into the economy. As already reported, 
poverty and inequality have reduced, thanks to the following opportunity-
equalising initiatives that Government has implemented.

Parish Development Model (PDM)

47.	 Madam Speaker, by 30th June this year, a total of Shs 3.3 trillion will have 
been transferred to the 10,589 parishes across the country, to transform the 
households still in subsistence to join the money economy. Each parish gets 
Shs 100 million per year. So far, the PDM funds have reached 2.63 million 
beneficiaries in all districts and parishes. The beneficiaries have invested 45 
percent of the money in cash and food crops such as maize, cassava, onions, 
bananas and Irish potatoes, 36 percent in livestock such as piggery, goats, 
beef cattle, dairy cattle and sheep, 12 percent in poultry, and 6 percent in 
other enterprises. These investments are changing the lives of Ugandans by 
boosting household incomes, enhancing food security and creating employment 
opportunities at local levels countrywide. 

48.	 Madam Speaker, PDM operations have been fully digitised to ensure secure 
and smooth flow of the Government grants directly from the National Treasury 
to the beneficiaries. Government is using the National Identification Number 
(NIN) and the PDM Information System (PDMIS) to identify the beneficiaries, the 
WENDI application to send the money, and the ZAIDI application to monitor and 
ensure that the money goes to the right beneficiaries and that they are using it 
to finance the right enterprises. This has enhanced efficiency and convenience 
in access, and helped to reduce corruption in the PDM operations.   

49.	 Effective next year, every Parish Chief will make use of the PDMIS to prepare an 
annual report on the State of their Parish Economy and Asset Register (SPEAR 
Report). This report will enable tracking of progress towards full monetisation 
of the economy for every parish. 

50.	 Madam Speaker, I have provided an additional Shs 1.059 trillion next financial 
year 2025/26 for further capitalisation of the PDM. This will avail an additional 
Shs 100 million per parish for households that have not yet benefitted from PDM. 
Government has also provided money to pay for the bank charges to ensure 
that beneficiaries receive the full amount of Shs 1 million each. Government is 

12

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



also providing a grant of Shs 500,000 for persons with disability over and above 
the loan of Shs 1 million to cater for their additional access requirements.  

51.	 Madam Speaker, in order to add value to, and guarantee markets for the PDM 
outputs, Government has stepped up investment in agro-industry through 
vertical and horizontal value addition. This is targeting production of high-
value multi-input products such as nutritional foods, baby foods that use 
several products like milk, eggs and maize, and fruits and vegetables. 

Agriculture Credit Facility (ACF)

52.	 Madam Speaker, Government has injected a total of Shs 413.4 billion in 
the ACF since its establishment in 2010. In partnership with participating 
financial institutions that match the Government contribution, this facility has 
so far provided over Shs 1 trillion in low-interest loans by end March 2025, 
to support agricultural productivity, commercial farming and agricultural 
value addition. The ACF has so far supported 14,336 beneficiaries, of whom 
3,531 are smallholder farmers. The loans have financed the following: grain 
trading, Shs 431.4 billion (43 percent); on-farm activities, Shs 312.8 billion 
(32 percent); agro-processing, Shs 166.8 billion (16 percent); and post-harvest 
management, Shs 89 billion (9 percent). 

53.	 Madam Speaker, I have provided additional capital for the ACF of Shs 50 billion 
next financial year 2025/26. This is in addition to agricultural insurance that 
benefits all farmers including PDM beneficiaries.

Uganda Development Bank (UDB) 

54.	 Madam Speaker, Government has cumulatively capitalised UDB to the tune of 
Shs 1.5 trillion to support industrialisation, agricultural commercialisation, 
and acquisition of appropriate technologies to increase productivity. UDB has 
so far achieved the following:
i)	 UDB has provided Shs 2.45 trillion to 607 businesses engaged in 

commercial agriculture, agricultural value addition, manufacturing, 
tourism and hospitality, education, health services, creatives, and 
construction industry, as at end December 2024.

ii)	 Businesses supported by UDB have created 55,553 jobs, generated 
output value of Shs 20 trillion, contributed Shs 944.2 billion in taxes, 
generated an equivalence of Shs 3.3 trillion in forex earnings, and Shs 
3.15 trillion in profits for the private sector businesses supported. 

iii)	 UDB has implemented special programmes targeting small and medium 
enterprises (SMEs), and youth- and women-owned businesses engaged 
in wealth creation.  This has been done through provision of business 
development and incubation services.

iv)	 In order to ease access, UDB is opening up regional offices and has 

13

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



supported wealth creation enterprises in 96 districts across all the sub-
regions.

55.	 Madam Speaker, I have now provided an additional Shs 1.0 trillion for UDB 
next financial year.  

Emyooga

56.	 Madam Speaker, in order to boost incomes of Ugandans engaged in specialised 
trades (Emyooga), particularly in urban and peri-urban centres, Government 
has so far provided a total of Shs 660 billion. This has benefitted a total of 
2.4 million Ugandans in creating 471,000 jobs and kick-starting a new local 
economy in value-added  enterprises such as wine-making, carpentry, coffee 
value addition, metal fabrication, tailoring, artisanal products, mechanics, 
women in markets, restaurants and services like hair and beauty salons  and 
transport, among others.  

57.	 Madam Speaker, I am providing an additional Shs 100 billion next financial year 
to support more Emyooga enterprises as off-takers of PDM outputs. Following 
enactment of the new TVET Act, Government will support certification and 
issuance of practising permits to competent practitioners benefitting from the 
Emyooga Programme. 

Small Business Recovery Fund 

58.	 Madam Speaker, this fund was established to support small businesses which 
were affected by Covid-19 to recover with an initial capital of Shs 100 billion, to 
be matched by commercial banks and other financial institutions.  The funding 
from the SBRF has enabled 3,496 micro, small and medium enterprises to 
recover from the effects of Covid-19, saving over 26,672 jobs in the sectors of 
trade and commerce, hospitality, education and construction. 

59.	 Madam Speaker, in order to accelerate full monetisation of the economy through 
the various wealth creation programmes, I have provided Shs 2.43 trillion next 
financial year 2025/26. These funds are going to be passed on to Ugandans in 
wealth creation through: PDM, Shs 1.059 trillion; Emyooga, Shs 100 billion; 
UDB, Shs 1.0 trillion; Uganda Development Corporation, Shs 187.1 billion; and 
the Agricultural Credit Facility, Shs 50 billion. Others include GROW (Generating 
Growth Opportunities and Productivity for Women Enterprises) Shs 231.3 
billion; INVITE (Investment for Industrial Transformation and Empowerment); 
Shs 275.1 billion, Presidential Zonal Industrial Hubs and skilling initiatives 
Shs 58.5 billion to turn youth into manufacturers; and support to Microfinance 
Shs 48.5 billion.

14

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



Agro-Industrialisation

60.	 Madam Speaker, the interventions in agro-industrialisation this financial year 
and next financial year have prioritised research, increase in productivity, 
commercialisation and value addition in agriculture.

61.	 Madam Speaker, some of the key achievements in this financial year include: 
i)	 Research and genetics development of selected value chains. The National 

Animal Genetic Resources Centre and Databank has introduced 
superior animal genetic resources for breeding, multiplication and 
distribution to farming households under PDM. NARO has completed 
the manufacturing facility for anti-tick vaccines at Nakyesasa in Wakiso 
District with the capacity to produce over 20 million doses of the anti-
tick vaccine per year.  NARO has also developed agricultural technologies 
that increase productivity such as water-saving cultivation technology, 
drought-resistant varieties, and integrated pest, disease and weed 
control technologies, among others. Research in coffee by NaCORI has 
contributed to increased national coffee production, productivity and 
export earnings. 

ii)	 Increasing agricultural production and productivity. The capacity of water 
for irrigation has increased to 54.76 million cubic metres.   This is on 
account of Government investment in small and large irrigation systems, 
including solar-powered irrigation.  In particular, 7 large scale irrigation 
schemes have been completed. These include Ngenge in Kween District; 
Rwengaaju in Kabarole; Tochi in Oyam; Mubuku II in Kasese; Olweny 
in Lira; Doho II in Butaleja; and Wadelai in Pakwach. Another three 
irrigation schemes are currently under construction. These are: Acomai 
in  Bukedea District; Atari in Kween/Bulambuli District; and Namatala, 
covering Budaka, Mbale and Butaleja Districts.

62.	 Madam Speaker, another 145 solar-powered irrigation and water supply 
schemes have been completed across the country. In addition, 157 solar-powered 
irrigation and water supply schemes are under construction. Furthermore, 
4,300 micro-scale irrigation facilities were constructed in 135 districts across 
the country and have benefitted smallholder farmers of less than 2.5 acres.

63.	 Madam Speaker, in addition, Government completed Usake Dam in Kaabong, 
and Ongunga Dam in Katakwi for livestock, irrigation and fish farming. In 
addition, 5,251 small- and medium-scale irrigation schemes were established 
in 135 districts.

64.	 Madam Speaker, Government: established five zonal agricultural mechanisation 
centres in Namalere, Buwama, Bunghokho, Agwata and Sanga to support 
equipment access and tractor hire services; procured and distributed 260 
assorted four-wheeled tractors and implements to farmer groups in 60 districts 

15

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



countrywide, 750 power tillers (single-axle tractors and implements), and 2 
pieces of dredging equipment for water hyacinth and weed control; and trained 
2,150 youth and women as operators, artisans and mechanics for tractors and 
implements. 

65.	 Madam Speaker, beginning this financial year, Government introduced the 
large-scale commercial farmer interest-free credit facility of Shs 175 billion. 
This facility will help to increase production and productivity for improved food 
security and exports. The loan facility can be accessed through Government-
owned banks, namely Post Bank, Housing Finance Bank, and Pride Bank 
Limited.
iii)	 Agricultural value addition and marketing. NARO completed setting up 

an Aflasafe Facility at Namulonge with capacity to eliminate aflatoxin 
contamination in grains. The facility has capacity to clean five tons of 
produce per hour. This will save the country an estimated USD 38 million 
per year, which is lost in export rejections due to aflatoxins and, most 
importantly, save the lives of Ugandans. 

66.	 Madam Speaker, to add value to agricultural produce, Government constructed 
eleven agro-processing and storage facilities to increase opportunities for value 
addition and access to high value markets. These include Rwimi Rice Processing 
Facility in Bunyangabu; Kasina Maize Processing Facility in Kyenjojo; Kigoyera 
Maize Processing Facility in Kyenjojo; Itojo Maize and Rice Processing Facility in 
Ntoroko; Nombe Coffee Processing Facility in Ntoroko; Apala Oil Seed Processing 
Facility in Alebtong; Gatyanga Coffee Processing Facility in  Bunyangabu; 
Ocorimongin Rice Processing Facility in Katakwi; Kajamaka Rice Processing 
Facility in Kumi; Kikwata Coffee Processing Facility in Nakaseke; and Kiwoko 
Maize Processing Facility in Nakaseke.

67.	 Madam Speaker, Government is strengthening partnership with the private 
sector through Uganda Development Corporation (UDC) to support local value 
addition and manufacturing in a wide range of agricultural value chains. These 
investments include Soroti Fruit Factory, Budadiri Arabica Coffee, Mabale 
Growers Tea Factory, Kayonza Growers Tea Factory, Bukona Agro Processors, 
Atiak Sugar Factory, and Yumbe Fruit Factory.

68.	 Madam Speaker, as part of the efforts to increase access of Uganda’s products 
to international markets, we dispatched the inaugural exports of coffee and milk 
to Serbia and Algeria, respectively. The milk exports to Algeria have potential to 
fetch Uganda export earnings worth USD 500 million. 

69.	 Madam Speaker, I have allocated a total of Shs 1.86 trillion next financial year 
towards deepening agro-industrialisation. These funds will support investments 
in: (i) agricultural research; (ii) agricultural inputs including fertiliser; (iii) water 
for irrigation; (iv) extension services; (v) agro-processing and value addition; 
vi) post-harvest handling and storage facilities; (vii) inspection, surveillance, 

16

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



certification, enforcement of quality standards, and market access. 

Tourism Development

70.	 Madam Speaker, Uganda’s tourism sector continued to recover with tourist 
arrivals increasing by 7.7 percent to 1.37 million in 2024, from 1.27 million in 
2023. Similarly, tourism earnings grew by 26 percent to USD 1.28 billion in 
2024, up from USD 1.02 billion in 2023. 

71.	 Madam Speaker, the following achievements were registered: 
i)	 Promoted and marketed Uganda through international Explore Uganda 

promotional campaigns in high-value market segments in USA, Canada 
and the United Kingdom. As a result, the year-on-year growth of interest 
in Uganda by tourists is 33 percent for the United Kingdom, 19 percent 
for Canada and 5 percent for the USA. Additionally, through the theme 
“Uniquely Ours”, we have promoted domestic tourism. As a result, 
domestic tourism in national parks increased by 15.7 percent in 2024, 
reaching 244,843 visitors.

ii)	 Continued to innovate and modernise tourism products to make them 
more competitive. This involved: maintenance of 1,300 kilometres of trail 
tracks and roads in tourism protected areas; increasing the cumulative 
coverage of electric fencing to 177 kilometres in Queen Elizabeth and 
Murchison Falls National Parks; continued construction of the pier and 
related infrastructure at the Source of the Nile; continuing to upgrade 
the Uganda Museum and Namugongo Martyrs’ Shrines; construction 
of 3,521 metres of climbing ladders and boardwalks on the Rwenzori 
Mountains to make hiking safer and fun; completion and commissioning 
of Kikorongo Equator Monument in Kasese; and the construction works 
of Karamoja Museum, which is nearing completion. 

iii)	 Government invested in a world-class convention facility in Munyonyo. 
This has promoted Uganda as one of the regional destinations for Meetings, 
Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions (MICE). Consequently, Uganda 
now ranks 7th in Africa in MICE tourism. 

72.	 Madam Speaker, I have allocated Shs 430 billion towards direct investment 
in tourism next financial year. This is in addition to about Shs 2.2 trillion 
provided for other tourism support investments such as tourism roads, ICT 
infrastructure in tourism areas, African Cup of Nations (AFCON) infrastructure, 
and security strengthening in tourism areas. 

73.	 Madam Speaker, the focus next financial year will be on: (i) branding and marketing 
of Uganda as a tourism and investment destination; (ii) infrastructure development 
in tourism sites; (iii) construction of refreshment centres and highway sanitation 
facilities; (iv) improving and enforcing hospitality standards and training; and (v) 
promoting health tourism by investment in specialised health facilities. 

17

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



74.	 Madam Speaker, Government has also stepped up investment in missions 
abroad to promote economic and commercial diplomacy. Every mission is now 
tasked to bring investors and tourists, and open up export markets.

Mineral-Based Industrial Development including Oil and Gas

75.	 Madam Speaker, the following achievements were registered this financial year: 
i)	 Government facilitated the establishment of 10 gold refineries, four 

cement manufacturing plants, and one tin processing plant, contributing 
to mineral processing and refining.  

ii)	 In the oil and gas sector, the Tilenga and Kingfisher oil projects are on 
track for first oil production in 2026. An agreement to construct a 60,000 
barrels-per-day oil refinery, which will kick-start the petro-chemical 
industry, was signed between Alpha MBM from UAE and the Uganda 
National Oil Company (UNOC). Once operations start, the oil and gas 
sector will contribute between USD 1 and 2.5 billion annually to the 
country’s revenues. 

iii)	 With regard to local content in the oil and gas industry, more Ugandan 
companies and individuals have benefitted from contracts issued and 
jobs, respectively. Out of 5,693 Tier One contracts, amounting to a total 
value of USD 5.4 billion awarded to date, 4,796 contracts (84 percent) 
were to Ugandan companies, amounting to USD 2.25 billion. Also, USD 
33.4 million, equivalent to Shs 121 billion, has been spent on goods and 
services consumed from the surrounding communities in Bunyoro. More 
than 14,000 Ugandans have been trained in various technical areas, and 
so far about 17,000 direct and 39,567 indirect jobs have been created. 

iv)	 Kabalega International Airport is nearly complete, and over 700 kilometres 
of roads have been constructed in the Albertine Region to support 
commercial production of oil and gas.

v)	 Government is expediting the finalisation of the 1,443-kilometre East 
African Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP), which is now 58 percent complete, 
with engineering works at 98 percent completion and procurement of the 
major equipment for the pipeline at 83 percent.

vi)	 Following UNOC’s commencement of the bulk supply of petroleum 
products in August 2024, the country has experienced relative stability 
in supply and pricing. This has been realised due to the elimination of 
middlemen and speculative tendencies. As a result, Uganda currently 
saves up to USD 72.8 million annually on fuel imports. 

76.	 Madam Speaker, I have provided Shs 875.8 billion next financial year for 
mineral-based industrial development including oil and gas, for (i) continued 
quantification of mineral resources, starting with iron ore, gold and copper, and 
strengthening their tracking system; (ii) capitalisation of the Uganda National 
Mining Company; (iii) establishing mineral markets and buying centres to 
enable transparent mineral trading; (iv) expediting finalisation of the East 

18

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



African Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP); and (v) prioritisation of the construction of 
the oil refinery and refined products pipeline, among others.

Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) including ICT and Creative Industry

77.	 Madam Speaker, STI including ICT and Creative Arts provide an important 
avenue for the country to develop high-tech exports and add new sources of 
growth and jobs.

78.	 Madam Speaker, this financial year, the following milestones have been achieved 
in the development of the knowledge economy: 
i)	 Completed and operationalised the Kiira vehicle plant in Jinja. The plant 

has an annual capacity of 2,500 vehicles. So far 41 buses have been 
produced, out of which 29 are electric.  The electric buses produced can 
run up to 500 kilometres when fully charged. The plant has signed a 
letter of intent to supply more than 3,700 electric buses to West Africa. 
Kiira Motors has created 800 jobs and has the potential to generate more 
than 14,000 direct and indirect productive jobs.

ii)	 Invested in vaccine development and commercialisation as well as 
innovations in therapeutics, diagnostics and other healthcare tools. 
Government has cumulatively invested a total of Shs 724 billion in the 
Dei BioPharma manufacturing facility located at Matugga, in Wakiso 
District. The facility is now licensed by the National Drug Authority and 
has started manufacturing generic drugs such as tablets, capsules, 
powders, non-antibiotic drugs, and antifungal drugs, among others. 

79.	 Madam Speaker, Government is making progress in the development of 
vaccines for the Crimean Congo haemorrhagic fever and Rift Valley virus. We 
also completed accreditation of the Alfasan vaccine manufacturing facility to 
produce anti-tick vaccines. Scientists at Makerere University developed a PCR 
kit which has been used to conduct more than 2 million tests at 50 percent 
of the cost of imported alternatives, saving the country USD 37 million. Gulu 
University developed highly effective rapid testing kits for crop diseases for 
cassava and sweet potatoes. 
iii)	 Madam Speaker, Government has invested in a coffee factory in Ntungamo 

to fast-track local value addition to coffee. The factory will have three 
processing lines for roastery, freeze dry and spray dry technology to 
produce instant, roast, and ground coffee, respectively. The roastery 
line has started production and other processing lines are at 50 percent 
installation.

iv)	 The banana value addition facility in Bushenyi has started production. 
The plant is producing several value-added products like banana flour 
used in bread, cakes, biscuits and baby food. The plant is increasing 
automation and capacity to 140 metric tons from 14 metric tons. It has 
started penetrating the local and international markets with orders from 
South Korea, the Middle East, South Africa, Italy and the USA.

19

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



80.	 Madam Speaker, with regard to ICT, Government has continued to expand 
internet connectivity and digital infrastructure across the country. The 
geographical coverage of broadband internet connectivity stands at 72 percent of 
the country, covering 4,387 kilometres. Government has increased digitisation 
of service delivery to improve efficiency, promote transparency and reduce 
bureaucracy. 

81.	 Madam Speaker, a total of 36 electronic services have been developed and 
rolled out. Some of these include the Online Business Registration System 
(OBRS); Electronic Government Procurement (e-GP), and the online passport, 
visa, national ID and driving licence application system. The Uganda Driver 
Licensing System, which was introduced in 2021, has reduced the turnaround 
time for processing driving licences to 45 minutes in Kampala and 48 hours in 
upcountry stations from a period of one month. 

82.	 To support Business Process Outsourcing (BPO), Government has licensed 
over 50 companies that have created over 10,000 jobs mainly for the youth 
that provide online services internationally. 

83.	 Madam Speaker, with regard to the creative arts, Government provided Shs 10 
billion to the creative arts industry. This was to support the artists to recover 
from the effects of Covid-19, and create a revolving fund to support young 
talents to create wealth and jobs.

84.	 Madam Speaker, I have provided Shs 835.98 billion for science, technology and 
innovation (STI) including ICT and the creative arts industry. Of this amount, 
Shs 388.23 billion is for STI, Shs 381.75 billion is for ICT and digitalisation, 
and Shs 66 billion for the creative arts. 

85.	 Madam Speaker, these funds will be utilised for: (i) establishing a Hi-tech 
City to support development of technologies and innovations; (ii) taking STI 
products to the market, especially Kiira motor vehicles, coffee, Dei BioPharma 
drugs and vaccines, and banana products; (iii) additional investment in 
R&D and innovation; (iv) increasing coverage, reliability and affordability of 
internet; (v) enhancing digitisation of Government services and e-commerce; 
(vi) promoting BPO for job creation; (vii) acquiring a home for creative artists 
for their productions and innovations; (viii) fast-tracking the Copyright and 
Neighbouring Rights Act to protect intellectual property and artistic works; and 
(ix) further capitalisation of the revolving fund for artists with an additional Shs 
18 billion, bringing it to a total of Shs 23 billion. 

Infrastructure Development

86.	 Madam Speaker, this priority area includes both transport and energy 
infrastructure. During this FY 2024/25, some of the following achievements 
were realised: 

20

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



Integrated transport infrastructure and services

87.	 Madam Speaker, the road network that is tarmacked now stands at 6,287.6 
kilometres, representing about 30 percent of the national road network, 
compared to 3,112 kilometres in financial year 2010/11. 

88.	 With this improved road network, the travel time, for example, from Malaba 
to Kisoro by road reduced from 48 hours (2 days) to about 10 hours. This 
will further improve with completion of the Kampala-Jinja and Busega-Mpigi 
express highways. Uganda is now connected by tarmac roads at all its major 
international border points, from the South Sudan border (Kitgum, Nimule and 
Oraba) in Acholi and West Nile to the southern border of Tanzania (Mutukula), 
Rwanda (Mirama Hills, Katuna and Cyanika) and the Congo border (Bunagana), 
and from the Kenya border (Lwakhakha, Malaba, and Busia) to the Congo 
border (Mpondwe, Busuunga, and Kaisotonya) in the West.

89.	 Madam Speaker, despite the challenges faced in the road sector this financial 
year, we continued to make progress as follows: 
i)	 Rehabilitated a total of 125 kilometres on several ongoing projects.
ii)	 Upgraded over 100 kilometres of roads to paved bituminous standards 

on several ongoing projects. 
iii)	 Government fully disbursed Shs 579 billion which was used for 

maintenance of National, District, Urban and Community Access Roads 
(DUCAR).

iv)	 Government is revamping the road and drainage infrastructure within the 
entire Greater Kampala Metropolitan Area (GKMA), to the extent that the 
entire city is now a construction site. A total of Shs 1.4 trillion has been 
dedicated to improving roads and drainage within GKMA. To deal with 
traffic congestion arising out of the gridlock generated by roundabouts, 
all major junctions are being improved and signalled with traffic lights. 
The Kampala Flyover and Road Upgrading Project has been completed. 

v)	 Construction of 10 bridges is ongoing at an average of 74.7% progress. 

90.	 Madam Speaker, next financial year, Government has significantly increased 
the budget for road infrastructure development. I have allocated an additional 
Shs 790 billion, bringing the total budget for roads to Shs 4.28 trillion. The 
following will be prioritised next financial year:
i)	 Start construction and complete ongoing works for road projects as 

highlighted by His Excellency the President in his State of the Nation 
Address.  In addition, the roads which had been left out to be prioritized 
are: Puranga-Acholibur (65 kilometres); Kampala-Gayaza-Kalagi 
(33 kilometres); Lugazi-Buikwe-Kiyindi (28 kilometres); Kabwohe-
Bwizibwera-Nyakambu-Nsika-Nyakabirizi, (92.2 kilometres); Kisubi-
Nakawuka-Natete-Kasanje-Mpigi-Mawugulu-Nanziga-Maya-Buwaya 
(71 kilometres); Busega-Mpigi (10 kilometres); Najjanankumbi-

21

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



Busabala (11 kilometres); Lusalira-Nkonge-Lumegere-Sembabule (97 
kilometres); Karugutu-Ntoroko (50 kilometres); Kabale-lake Bunyonyi 
(15.1 kilometres), Kisoro-Nkuringo-Lubugiri-Muko (70 kilometres) ; 
Laropi-Moyo-Afoji (39 kilometres), including a bridge at Laropi, Koboko-
Yumbe-Moyo (105 kilometres); Namagumba-Budadiri-Nalugugu (33 
kilometres) ; Tororo-Busia (25 kilometres); Katuna-Muko-Kamuganguzi 
(104 kilometres); Moroto-Lokitanyala (42 kilometres); Hamurwa-Kerere-
Kanungu (47 kilometres); Lyantonde-Kashagama-Nyabitanga-Ntusi road 
(57.7 kilometres); Isingiro-Rugaaga-Mutukula-Ngarama-Kashumba-
Kasese on the border with Tanzania (164 kilometres); Masindi Bridge; 
and Karuma Bridge. 

ii)	 Start construction and complete ongoing works for bridges as highlighted 
by His Excellency the President in his State of the Nation Address.

iii)	 Commence implementation of the Kampala-Jinja Express Highway 
through a Public-Private Partnership framework. 

iv)	 Prioritise maintenance of the core national road transport network and 
DUCAR. 

Railway Transport

91.	 Madam Speaker, in November 2024, His Excellency the President launched 
construction of the 272-kilometre Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Malaba 
to Kampala. The SGR is a strategic investment for our country. It will cut cargo 
transport cost by half from the current USD 120 per ton, and reduce transit 
time from Mombasa to Kampala from 7 days to 1 day, turning Uganda into 
a land-linked country as opposed to being landlocked. The initial works for 
construction of the SGR have started. 

92.	 Madam Speaker, Government has completed the refurbishment and 
commissioning of the Mukono-Kampala Metre Gauge Railway line. In addition, 
rehabilitation of the 375 kilometres of the Tororo to Gulu Metre Gauge Railway 
will be completed by February 2026.

93.	 Madam Speaker, next financial year, priority interventions will include 
completing the rehabilitation of the Tororo-Gulu Metre Gauge Railway line; 
refurbishment of the Mukono-Jinja Metre Gauge Railway line; and construction 
of the Standard Gauge Railway from Kampala to Malaba.

Water Transport

94.	 Madam Speaker, Government has constructed and maintained a number of 
ferries providing essential services to connect isolated communities and facilitate 
access to markets. Government will continue to operate and maintain these 
ferries next financial year in addition to continued development of Bukasa Port, 
completing construction of the two ferries for Bukungu-Kaberamaido-Kagwara, 
and the two ferries for Lake Bunyonyi.

22

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



Air Transport

95.	 Madam Speaker, since the revival of Uganda Airlines 5 years ago by His 
Excellency the President, connectivity has improved within the continent, the 
Middle East, Asia and the United Kingdom. The airline is now flying to 17 direct 
destinations, which has contributed to reduced travel time at more affordable 
cost. 

96.	 Madam Speaker, the competition brought about by the airline has forced other 
regional airlines to reduce the cost of air tickets. For example, a return air 
ticket to Nairobi has stabilised at about USD 300, compared to USD 800 in 
2019. 

97.	 Madam Speaker, the airline is supporting trade and tourism in addition to 
business air travel. The national airline is now the largest operator and has 24 
percent market share of all air travel out of Entebbe Airport, up from 4 percent 
in 2019. Its revenue has increased to Shs 319 billion in FY 2023/24 from Shs 
28 billion in FY 2019/20.

98.	 Madam Speaker, with increased capitalisation and acquisition of additional 
aircraft, the airline will increase efficiency and travellers to and from Uganda 
will enjoy direct and cheaper travel to more international destinations.

99.	 Madam Speaker, the upgrade, rehabilitation and expansion of Entebbe 
International Airport is nearly complete. The expanded airport has a new cargo 
facility, and a new passenger terminal, among others. This is going to further 
improve passenger experience, trade and tourism. 

100.	 Madam Speaker, next financial year 2025/26, priority interventions will include: 
(i) additional capitalisation of Uganda Airlines to acquire more aircraft, to open 
up more routes for passenger and cargo transportation, and handling capacity; 
(ii) operationalisation of Kabalega International Airport; and (iii) rehabilitation 
and upgrade of the existing strategic airports and aerodromes.

101.	 Madam Speaker, I have provided Shs 6.92 trillion next financial year 2025/26 
for integrated transport and infrastructure services including roads, bridges, 
railways, water transport and air transport. 

Energy Development

102.	 Madam Speaker, several milestones have been registered in the development of 
our energy infrastructure. These include:
i)	 Installed electricity generation capacity has now reached 2,051.6 

megawatts.   
ii)	 The electricity transmission line network expanded by 874.8 kilometres, 

to 5,140 kilometres.
23

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



iii)	 Access to electricity has increased to 60 percent from 57 percent in FY 
2023/24, after connecting over 197,000 new customers.

iv)	 Following the Uganda Electricity Distribution Company Limited (UEDCL) 
takeover of distribution of electricity, the cost of power has reduced by 
14 percent, saving consumers Shs 250 billion annually. A tariff of USD 5 
cents per kilowatt hour has been achieved for all extra-large consumers 
of electricity (those consuming above 1.5 megawatt) at off-peak. 

103.	 Madam Speaker, I have provided Shs 1.04 trillion next financial year 2025/26 
to undertake the following priority interventions: 
i)	 Additional investment in UEDCL to ensure affordable, efficient, and 

reliable distribution of electricity to consumers.
ii)	 Enhance access to electricity through implementation of the USD 638 

million Electricity Access Scale-up Project covering grid expansion, 
connectivity and clean energy options for 1 million new electricity 
connections. Further, Government will continue investing in priority 
transmission lines and sub-stations, particularly to the industrial parks, 
growth centres and other strategic manufacturing facilities like the clinker 
factory in Moroto Karamoja, the fertiliser factory in Kampirigisa Mpigi, 
Simba Cement Factory in Mbarara Western Uganda, Dei BioPharma in 
Matugga Wakiso District, and the Coffee Factory in Ntungamo, among 
others. 

iii)	 Commence development of new power generation plants to meet the 
growing demand. These include new hydro-power plants at Ayago and 
Oriang in Nwoya District, and Kiba in Oyam District, the development 
of the nuclear power in Buyende District, and rehabilitation of Kiira-
Nalubaale Power Plant. 

Industrial Development and Manufacturing

104.	 Madam Speaker, with regard to industrial development and manufacturing, 
the following achievements have been registered: 
i)	 Government has operationalised 8 industrial parks, which include 

Namanve, Luzira, Bweyogerere, Mbale, Soroti, Kasese, Mbarara, and 
Jinja industrial parks. We have also supported the development of 
three privately owned industrial parks, which are Liao Shen Kapeeka in 
Nakaseke District, MMP in Buikwe District, and Tian Tang in Mukono. 

ii)	 To date, a total of 628 companies/industries have been allocated 
land within the various industrial parks, 47 percent of which are in 
manufacturing. Out of all the companies allocated land, 307 are fully 
operational, 195 are undertaking construction, and 122 have commenced 
preparatory activities. The parks have attracted a total capital investment 
of USD 4.5 billion and created 181,403 jobs. 

iii)	 Madam Speaker, several industrial parks have become centres of 

24

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



innovation, hosting firms that have introduced new technologies 
and products, such as: a single HIV pill (Quality Chemicals Ltd); GIS 
transformers (Orion Electricals); plastic-to-fabric recycling (Fei Long 
Investment Ltd); locally manufactured electric vehicles (Kira Motors); the 
first powder-free surgical gloves (East African Medical Vitals); and import 
substitution products like fridges, transformers, toiletries, textiles, 
ceramics, televisions, and blankets. 

iv)	 Government has supported industrialisation by investing in strategic 
manufacturing facilities through Uganda Development Corporation with 
a total investment of Shs 1.2 trillion.

105.	 Madam Speaker, next financial year I have provided Shs 308.9 billion to further 
support infrastructure development in industrial parks, including roads, waste 
management, drainage, and utilities; and Shs 187 billon for capitalisation of 
UDC.  

Security, Good Governance and Rule of Law

106.	 Madam Speaker, security, good governance and the rule of law are the 
foundation for socio-economic transformation. During this financial year, the 
following achievements were registered:
i)	 Strengthened and modernised the security infrastructure to protect 

Ugandans, investors and our visitors from any security threats. We 
have invested in security apparatus and more sophisticated intelligence 
network and border control mechanisms. 

ii)	 Provided adequate funds to security institutions, including the Military, 
Police, Prisons, and intelligence agencies for operations, and improving 
capacity and welfare of men and women in uniform. 

iii)	 Promoted regional and international relations, including playing a 
strategic role in peace processes in Somalia, South Sudan, the DRC, and 
Equatorial Guinea.

iv)	 Registered a 4.1% decrease in the volume of crime from 228,074 cases 
reported in 2023 to 218,715 cases in 2024 and a subsequent decline in 
the crime rate from 516 to 476 per 100,000 persons.

i)	 Commenced mass enrolment of Ugandans on 27th May 2025 to 
acquire National Identity Cards with a target of registering 17.2 million 
unregistered persons and renewing 15.8 million expired cards. Apart 
from securing elections and aiding our national security, the National 
ID has contributed to improved efficiency in accessing public services, 
broadened financial inclusion, eased travel within the EAC and stamped 
out fraud arising from identification. 

ii)	 Improved efficiency in the delivery of citizenship and immigration control 
services. The average turnaround time for processing of ordinary passports 
has reduced to 4 from 14 days. 

25

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



iii)	 Government has started to roll out the Intelligent Transport Monitoring 
System (ITMS) to improve security. To date, 26,818 vehicles and 62,512 
motorcycles have been registered. In addition, Government has invested 
in security cameras to improve tracking of crime in Greater Kampala 
Metropolitan Area and on major highways. Government has also started 
implementing regulations for speed limits using the Express Penalty 
System (EPS) to reduce fatalities on roads.

iv)	 The Uganda Prisons is transforming from a consumptive to a productive 
force. This has contributed to food security and reduced the budget 
required to look after inmates. In addition, the Prisons Service contributed 
to growth of local textile industry through increased production of cotton. 
This financial year, the service produced 1,733 metric tons of maize seed, 
305,485 kilograms of cotton for the local textile industries and 12,290 
metric tons of grain to contribute to prisoners’ feeding requirements.

v)	 Government was effectively represented in Courts, Tribunals and 
Commissions.  Out of 393 cases concluded, Government won 285 (72.5 
percent) and saved Shs 548 billion that would have otherwise been paid 
as costs. 

vi)	 Government implemented the NRM Manifesto commitment on cattle 
compensation in the Acholi, Lango, and Teso sub-regions. Since financial 
year 2021/22, a total of Shs 142.9 billion has been paid to 53,592 
claimants. I have provided Shs 80 billion next financial year to pay the 
remaining claimants. In addition, I have provided Shs 15 billion for ex-
gratia (akasiimo) of the Luweero war victims. 

107.	 Madam Speaker, next financial year, I have provided Shs 9.9 trillion for: 
(i) consolidating Uganda’s security through continued modernisation and 
professionalisation of the security agencies;   (ii) improving the welfare of the 
security forces; (iii) undertaking general elections in 2026; (iv) increasing access 
to justice, law and order services; and (v) strengthening immigration and border 
security; 

108.	 Madam Speaker, Government is stepping up the fight against corruption. We 
are automating all Government processes to reduce human interaction and 
ensure traceability, investing in more performance and forensic audits, and 
enforcing accountability.   

Administration of Justice

109.	 Madam Speaker, the following achievements were registered: 
i)	 The Judiciary has significantly scaled up Alternative Dispute Resolution 

mechanisms like mediation, plea bargaining, and small claims procedures, 
reducing justice costs and speeding up dispute resolution. For example, 
in 2024, a total of 3,391 cases were resolved through mediation.   In 
addition, plea bargaining achieved a success rate of 87 percent.

26

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



ii)	 Completed the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, Rukungiri High Court, 
and Budaka and Patongo Magistrate Courts. Five new High Court Circuits 
in Wakiso, Entebbe, Kumi, Lugazi, Patongo and 10 Magistrates Courts 
were operationalized, bringing the total to 268 courts countrywide. 
Construction is ongoing of regional Appeal Courts in Gulu and Mbarara, 
Soroti and Tororo High Courts and Karenga Magistrates Court. This will 
further reduce travel distances for justice.  

iii)	 There is increased use of technology in the delivery of justice. The 
Electronic Court Case Management System is now operational in 20 
courts, boosting filing rates by 20.6 percent. Additionally, 20 courts have 
video conferencing systems, enabling online case handling which has 
improved efficiency.

110.	 Madam Speaker, I have provided Shs 602.7 billion next financial year under 
the Administration of Justice Programme for strengthening alternative dispute 
resolution, increased use of technology in justice delivery, building more courts 
to improve access to justice, and increasing the civil jurisdiction of magistrates’ 
courts. 

Legislation and Oversight

111.	 Madam Speaker, the Legislature has registered several achievements during 
FY 2024/25. Parliament held 75 sittings and passed 35 bills, concluded 3 
petitions, passed 45 resolutions and adopted 53 reports. Most importantly, 
the turnaround time for enactment of legislation has reduced significantly. I 
commend you Rt. Hon Speaker for this tremendous achievement. 

112.	 Madam Speaker, I have provided a total of Shs 1.03 trillion next financial 
year for legislative processes, public engagements and outreach, providing 
parliamentary oversight of democracy and governance, and ensuring 
accountability for public funds and implementation of public programmes. 

Management of Natural Disasters 

113.	 Madam Speaker, to protect Ugandans from disaster, this financial year 
Government invested Shs 200.3 billion in early warning systems, mitigation 
interventions and provision of relief items to affected households and 
communities in the disaster-prone areas. 

114.	 Madam Speaker, next financial year, I have provided Shs 20.7 billion plus a 
Contingency Fund of Shs 169 billion to support disaster management. I have 
also provided Shs 12.4 billion for improving meteorological services	 and 
early warning systems to improve efficiency and accuracy of weather forecasting 
for agriculture, air travel, and climate change tracking. 

27

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



Elimination of Domestic Arrears

115.	 Madam Speaker, Government has put in place a strategy to eliminate domestic 
arrears in three financial years starting FY 2025/26. Payment of domestic arrears 
will prioritise  suppliers of goods and services, contractors, and compensations 
for land and to war claimants. 

116.	 Madam Speaker, I have increased the allocation for domestic arrears to Shs 
1.4 trillion from Shs 200 billion provided this financial year. To prevent 
accumulation of new arrears, starting next financial year, my Ministry shall 
implement the following measures: (i) enforcement of the commitment control 
system; (ii) sanctioning Accounting Officers responsible for creation of any new 
arrears; and (iii) providing and ringfencing adequate counterpart funding for 
multi-year projects.

V. FINANCING THE BUDGET FOR FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26

Resource Envelope

117.	 Madam Speaker, the total resource envelope for FY 2025/26 amounts to Seventy-
Two Trillion, Three Hundred and Seventy-Six Billion, Four Hundred and 
Eighty-One Million, Four Hundred Eighty-One Million, Five Hundred-Two 
Thousand, One Hundred-Three Shillings (72,376,481,502,103/=). This is 
detailed as follows: 
i)	 Domestic revenue amounting to Shs 37.55 trillion, of which Shs 33.94 

trillion will be tax revenue, Shs 3.28 trillion non-tax revenue, and Shs 
328.6 billion Local Government revenue;

ii)	 Domestic borrowing, Shs 11.38 trillion;
iii)	 Domestic refinancing of maturing domestic debt, Shs 10.03 trillion; 
iv)	 Grants and external borrowing for general budget financing, Shs 2.08 

trillion; and
v)	 External financing for projects, Shs 11.33 trillion of which Shs 2.8 

trillion are grants. 

Expenditure Allocations

118.	 Madam Speaker, the above resource has been allocated as follows:
i)	 Wages and salaries, Shs 8.57 trillion; 
ii)	 Non-wage recurrent expenditure, Shs 28.33 trillion, which also includes 

operational funds for institutions, financing for all wealth creation funds, 
financing for science and technology investments, grants for education 
and health, medicines, maintenance of infrastructure, and interest 
payments, among others;

28

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



iii)	 Development expenditure, Shs 18.24 trillion; 
iv)	 Domestic debt refinancing, Shs 10.03 trillion; 
v)	 Debt amortization, Shs 4.98 trillion;
vi)	 Domestic debt repayment to Bank of Uganda, Shs 493 billion; 
vii)	 Domestic arrears, Shs 1.4 trillion; and 
viii)	 Local Government expenditure from own revenue, Shs 328.6 billion.

119.	 Madam Speaker, I have attached the details of the Resource Envelope and 
Expenditure Allocations by Vote for FY 2025/26 as Annexes 2 and 3.

The Financing Strategy for FY 2025/26

120.	 Madam Speaker, below is the financing strategy for next financial year: 
i)	 Improving tax administration to raise an additional Shs 1.89 trillion. 
ii)	 Introduction of new tax measures to increase domestic revenue by Shs 

538.6 billion.
iii)	 Rationalising tax exemptions to eliminate inefficient ones that do not 

support industrial policy.
iv)	 Repurposing resources in the budget for FY 2024/25 from less productive 

to high-impact areas in line with the Tenfold Growth Strategy.
v)	 Mobilising more concessional financing from international financial 

institutions such as the World Bank, IMF, African Development Bank, 
Islamic Development Bank, BADEA, etc. 

vi)	 Mobilising development finance from other innovative sources, including 
Public Private Partnerships, climate finance, private equity, Sukuk bonds, 
Panda bond, diaspora bonds, etc. 

Tax Measures for Financial Year 2025/26

121.	 Madam Speaker, an additional revenue of Shs 538.6 billion will be raised from 
new tax policy measures that were approved by Parliament. In addition to 
raising revenue, the measures will support the growth of businesses and the 
economy. 

122.	 The measures also include technical amendments to tax laws aimed at improving 
clarity and consistency, creating a fairer and more predictable tax environment 
for businesses and taxpayers, and removing ambiguities that create loopholes 
leading to revenue leakages. These amendments are also intended to enhance 
tax administration, encourage voluntary compliance, and empower the Uganda 
Revenue Authority (URA) to effectively enforce tax laws. 

123.	 Madam Speaker, I wish to present key highlights of changes in the tax laws:
29

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



Income Tax 

Exemption for Start-up Businesses

123.	 The NRM Government has granted a three-year income tax holiday for start-
up businesses established by citizens after 1st July 2025. This is intended to 
support start-ups that struggle with high initial investment costs. The incentive 
is to foster innovation, encourage formalisation of SMEs, enhance business 
survival, and promote employment.

Exemption from Capital Gains Tax on Transactions 

124.	 Government has granted an exemption from capital gains tax on transactions 
where an individual transfers asset to a company they have established but 
also under their control. This is a deliberate policy intervention aimed at 
encouraging formalisation of businesses.

125.	 Madam Speaker, currently, many Ugandans operate businesses under their 
personal names, often as sole proprietors or informal entities. When these 
individuals seek to transition into more formal and structured corporate 
entities for purposes of growth, access to finance, strengthening governance, or 
succession planning, they face a capital gains tax liability simply for transferring 
their assets into a company they fully own. This tax burden has been removed.

Income Tax Exemption for Bujagali Hydro-Power Project 

126.	 Madam Speaker, Government has granted an income tax exemption to Bujagali 
Energy Limited for one year up to 30th June 2026 in accordance with our 
contractual obligations. This is intended to mitigate a rise in electricity tariffs.

Stamp Duty 

Removal of Stamp Duty on Mortgages and Agreements

127.	 Madam Speaker, Government has removed stamp duty on mortgages and 
agreements. This reform is intended to lower the cost of debt for businesses 
and individuals. It will also remove the financial burden imposed on businesses 
and individuals when they enter into agreements. 

Tax Procedures Code

Waiver of Interest and Penalty for Voluntary Payment of Outstanding Principal Tax 

128.	 Government has extended the waiver period of any interest and penalties 
outstanding as at 30th June 2024, provided that the taxpayer pays the principal 
tax by 30th June 2026. This waiver is intended to provide relief to businesses 
and individuals to enable them to settle outstanding tax liabilities and resume 

30

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



normal operations.

Value Added Tax 

Reform of the Penalty Regime for Non-Compliance with EFRIS

129.	 Madam Speaker, we have implemented the Electronic Fiscal Receipting and 
Invoicing System (EFRIS) to improve tax compliance and reduce tax evasion. 
However, concerns have been raised regarding the high penalties of Shs 6 million 
per invoice, regardless of the value of the transaction, which disproportionately 
burdened taxpayers. To address this issue, the penalty structure has been 
amended so that the penalty for non-compliance will instead be twice the tax 
owed by the taxpayer. 

130.	 I urge taxpayers to embrace the EFRIS system as it helps the taxpayer to reduce 
lengthy and burdensome interactions with URA staff, audits and penalties. It 
also promotes transparency and creates an even-playing field.  

Excise Duty 

131.	 Madam Speaker, we have increased the taxes on cigarettes to discourage 
consumption but also generate additional revenue.  Excise duty on soft cap 
cigarettes has been increased to Shs 65,000 per 1,000 sticks from Shs 55,000, 
and hinge lid cigarettes to Shs 90,000 per 1,000 sticks from Shs 80,000. For 
those outside EAC, excise duty on soft cap cigarettes has been increased to 
Shs 150,000 per 1,000 sticks from Shs 75,000, and hinge lid cigarettes to Shs 
200,000 per 1,000 sticks from Shs 100,000.

132.	 Madam Speaker, Government has removed the excise duty rate of 30 percent or 
Shs 950 per litre, whichever is higher, on beer manufactured from barley that 
is grown and malted in Uganda, because it was redundant. Also, Government 
has adjusted the excise duty on beer manufactured with local raw material 
content of at least 75 percent by weight of its constituents, excluding water, to 
30 percent or Shs 900 per litre from 30 percent or Shs 650 per litre, whichever 
is higher. This is to ensure that a manufacture pays the same amount of tax 
whether using a specific rate or an ad valorem rate. 

Taxes on External Trade

Introduction of an Import Declaration Fee on Imported Items 

133.	 Madam Speaker, I have imposed a small fee of 1 percent of the customs value 
on taxable items under the common external tariff. This measure seeks to align 
Uganda’s tax policy with those of other EAC Partner States, where similar fees 
have been imposed. For instance, Kenya applies a 2 percent CIF charge.

Establishment of an Export Levy on Wheat Bran, Cotton Cake, and Maize Bran
31

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



134.	 Madam Speaker, Government has imposed an export levy of USD 10 per metric 
ton of wheat bran, cotton cake or maize bran to encourage local value addition, 
particularly in the production of animal feeds. Currently, these products are 
exported as raw materials in the region, where value is added and imported 
into Uganda as finished goods. Therefore, this measure will encourage value 
addition and create jobs for Ugandans.

Taxes on Textiles

135.	 Madam Speaker, the NRM Government has listened to our traders dealing in 
imported textiles for value addition. As they requested, the import duty on 
imported fabrics has been reduced. Effective 1st July 2025, the duty will be 
USD 2 per kilogram or 35 percent, whichever is the higher, down from USD 3 
per kilogram or 35 percent, whichever is higher. In addition, the import duty on 
garments has been reduced to USD 2.5 per kilogram or 35 percent, whichever 
is higher, from USD 3.5 per kilogram or 35 percent, whichever is higher. 

Public Debt

136.	 Madam Speaker, the stock of public debt is projected at USD 31.5 billion, 
equivalent to Shs 116 trillion, by end June 2025. Of this, external debt 
accounts for USD 15.49 billion, equivalent to Shs 56.3 trillion, and domestic 
debt USD 16 billion, equivalent to Shs 59.77 trillion. As a ratio of GDP, our 
public debt is estimated at 51.26 percent, which is consistent with the Charter 
of Fiscal Responsibility.

137.	 Madam Speaker, Uganda’s debt is sustainable and is projected to remain so 
in the medium to long term. The debt has financed investments that support 
private sector growth by providing the requisite infrastructure. 

138.	 Over the last 10 years, the areas which public debt has financed include 
integrated transport infrastructure (29.3 percent), electricity infrastructure 
including power generation plants and transmission lines (27.6 percent), water 
for production and consumption (11.5 percent), agro-industrialisation (5.1 
percent), education and health (5 percent), housing and urban development (3 
percent), and development of industrial parks (2 percent). 

139.	 To maintain public debt sustainability, Government is implementing the 
following actions:
i)	 Domestic revenue mobilisation to increase revenue collection and reduce 

borrowing.
ii)	 Mobilising more concessional financing from international financial 

institutions such as the World Bank, IMF, African Development Bank, 
Islamic Development Bank, BADEA, etc. 

iii)	 Implementation of the Okusevinga initiative, where Ugandans will invest 
32

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



in Government securities using mobile money.

VI. CONCLUSION

140.	 Madam Speaker, in conclusion, Uganda’s economy has taken off.  The economic 
fundamentals – GDP growth, price stability, currency stability, jobs, export and 
FDI receipts – are in good shape, and highly competitive regionally and globally. 
We have met the criteria for graduation from the category of LDCs. Poverty 
and inequality have reduced, significantly. Our deliberate onslaught on the 
subsistence economy has resulted in cutting the number of Ugandans working 
for only the stomach to just 3 in every 10 households.       

141.	 With our renewed commitment to fast-track full monetisation of the economy 
and redirect resources towards agro-industrialisation, tourism, mineral 
beneficiation, manufacturing, innovations by our scientists and digital 
transformation, Uganda is indeed unstoppable. 

142.	 We are determined to transform into a 500-billion-dollar economy, powered 
by value addition to our abundant agricultural raw materials and natural 
resources, growth in industry, tourism and the knowledge economy.

143.	 This budget, therefore, is for all Ugandans who are ready to create wealth. Fellow 
countrymen and women, take full advantage of the innumerable opportunities 
contained in this budget. 

144.	 To those still in the subsistence economy, the PDM and other wealth creation 
funds have been availed to support you to join the money economy in any of 
the four sectors – commercial agriculture, industry, services, or ICT.

145.	 To the private sector, the Tenfold Growth Strategy presents many opportunities. 
Demand for household services and consumables is going to increase 
exponentially in the next 15 years on account of rising household incomes. The 
increase in GDP represents larger demand for intermediate goods and services 
among businesses. With a larger economy, Government revenue will increase, 
and so will the size of Government contracts to the private sector.

146.	 To the investors and our partners in development, this budget guarantees peace 
and security, easy taxes, and a tolerable administration of justice. In Uganda, 
we protect private property, enforce contracts and repay our debt. 

147.	 To the youth, this budget offers opportunities to acquire more skills, access 
finance, innovate and develop new and better products. The budget also 
contains huge investments in sports, particularly to upgrade the facilities in 
preparation for CHAN and AFCON27. 

148.	 To those in the creative industry, the NRM Government has fulfilled its promise 
33

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



to provide you with a revolving fund, acquire a home for you, and enact a 
copyright law to protect your intellectual property. This is just the beginning 
of what we intend to do to open doors for you to escape unemployment and 
manipulation by self-interested individuals and groups. Take full advantage of 
the opportunities to make money and live a productive life. 

149.	 To the women and mothers of this nation, the budget has provided funds to 
improve your health, to ensure that your children are born in safe hands, 
are immunised, sleep under a mosquito net, drink clean, safe water, and are 
educated in a nearby school for free. The budget has also allocated billions 
to support your businesses, however small, to graduate into sustainable 
businesses.

150.	 To the elderly, persons with disabilities, and other vulnerable persons, wherever 
you are in this country, the budget offers several social safety nets not only to 
shield you from poverty but also to ensure that you can be productive and 
begin to live a decent life.

151.	 To our Cultural Leaders, this budget has fulfilled His Excellency the President’s 
promise of enhancing Government support for your operations. For religious 
leaders, the budget has provided funding to support functions of the Inter-
Religious Council. I now appeal to you to support mobilisation of people for 
wealth creation and implementation of Government programmes.  

152.	 To the gallant men and women in uniform, who are serving in the UPDF, in 
the Uganda Police, in the Uganda Prisons, and in the intelligence services, this 
budget contains money to improve your welfare and capabilities. Continue to 
serve your country and keep it as safe as you have always done. Happy belated 
Heroes Day.

153.	 I have adequately provided resources to ensure the elections go on successfully 
by ensuring peace, security, law and order and availability of all the required 
equipment and documents. As we go about the electoral process, I implore all 
political actors to observe peaceful engagement and avoid distracting wealth 
creators.

154.	 Madam Speaker, as I step off this podium, I would like to reiterate His Excellency 
the President’s call to all Ugandans to embrace wealth creation. I dedicate this 
budget to all the wealth creators, particularly the youth and women. 

155.	 Madam Speaker, I beg to move.

34

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



ANNEXES

35

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



ANNEX 1: THE FISCAL FRAME FY2025-26

 proj. outturn proj. proj. proj. proj. proj.
2024/25 2025/26 2026/27 2027/28 2028/29 2029/30

Total revenue and grants 34,288 39,974 48,068 56,630 65,339 75,290
  Revenue 31,489.6 37,227.2 46,559 55,331 64,218 74,343
      Tax revenue 29,014 33,943 39,443 45,846 53,202 61,309
      Non-tax revenue 2,475 3,284 3,436 3,701 4,101 4,504
      Oil revenues 0 0 3,679 5,784 6,915 8,530
  Grants 2,798 2,747 1,509 1,299 1,122 947
     Budget support 81 27 0 0 0 0
     Project grants 2,717 2,720 1,509 1,299 1,122 947
Expenditures and net lending 51,526 56,541 64,182 71,447 78,700 87,085
  Recurrent expenditures 35,461 36,902 41,405 47,616 52,821 58,326
    Wages and salaries 8,120 8,568 9,927 11,470 12,916 14,428
    Non-wage 17,532 17,001 18,473 22,429 25,428 28,711
    Interest payments 9,808 11,333 13,004 13,717 14,477 15,188
      o/w: domestic 8,218 9,479 10,935 11,537 12,269 13,045
      o/w: foreign 1,591 1,854 2,069 2,180 2,208 2,143
 Development expenditures 15,229 18,239 21,882 23,432 25,310 28,358
    External 6,550 11,327 13,705 13,958 14,327 15,840
    Domestic 8,679 6,912 8,176 9,475 10,983 12,519
  Net lending and investment 210 0 696 199 369 201
 Others 626 1,401 200 200 200 200
Overall balance -17,238 -16,567 -16,114 -14,817 -13,361 -11,795 
 Excluding grants -20,037 -19,314 -17,623 -16,116 -14,483 -12,742 
Financing 17,238 16,567 16,114 14,817 13,361 11,795 
External financing (net) 3,656 5,679 7,582 7,880 7,329 7,346 
    Disbursement 6,649 10,665 12,535 12,658 13,372 14,893 
        Budget support 2,606 2,057 339 0 0 0 
        Concessional project loans 2,068 4,376 4,717 6,273 6,139 11,901 
        Non-concessional loans 1,975 4,231 7,479 6,385 7,233 2,992 
   Amortisation (-) -2,992 -4,986 -4,954 -4,778 -6,044 -7,547 
Domestic financing (net) 13,582 10,888 8,532 6,937 6,032 4,449 
Memo items:
Fiscal deficit (% of GDP)
  Including grants and HIPC debt relief -7.6% -6.5% -5.5% -4.5% -3.6% -2.8%
  Excluding grants -8.9% -7.6% -6.0% -4.9% -3.9% -3.1%
Expenditure (% of GDP) 22.8% 22.2% 21.8% 21.5% 21.2% 20.9%
DNonteosr:  gFriagnutrse sa nde tl ooaf nHsI P(%C  odfe GbtD rePl)ief unless stated 3.3% 3.6% 2.2% 2.3% 2.0% 3.1%
otherwise. In the outer years, projections for project 
grants, external development expenditure and 

36

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



ANNEX 2 - REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE FY 2024/25 - 2025/26 ( Shs Bn)

Approved Budget Approved Budget
FY 2024/25 FY 2025/26
(1) % (2) %

A) RESOURCES ( INFLOWS)
(1) Domestic Resources            49,137.68 81.7%            48,937.25 78.5%
  o/w   URA Tax Revenue            29,365.79 48.8%            33,943.08 54.4%
  o/ w  Non Tax Revenue              2,616.14 4.4%              3,284.16 5.3%
  o/w   Petroleum fund                115.37 0.2%                        -   0.0%
  o/w  Domestic Financing            16,746.48 27.9%            11,381.35 18.3%
  o/w  Local Revenue                293.90 0.5%                 328.67 0.5%

(2) External Resources            10,977.12 18.3%             13,411.39 21.5%

Budget Support              1,393.66 2.3%              2,084.32 3.3%
  o/w Grants                  39.49 0.1%                  27.10 0.0%
  o/w Loans              1,354.17 2.3%              2,057.22 3.3%

Project Support             9,583.46 15.9%            11,327.07 18.2%
  o/w Grants              2,845.43 4.7%              2,814.83 4.5%
  o/w Loans              6,738.03 11.2%              8,512.24 13.7%
TOTAL RESOURCES (1+2)            60,114.80 100.0%            62,348.64 100.0%

* Be lo w  the  line
Domestic Debt Re-financing              12,021.7            10,027.84 

TOTAL RESOURCE ENVELOPE             72,136.50            72,376.48 

B) EXPENDITURE ( OUTFLOWS) Approved Budget Approved Budget
FY 2024/25 FY 2025/26

Recurrent Expenditure            31,886.21 67.3%            36,901.71 66.9%
   o/w Wage              7,934.75 16.7%              8,567.97 15.5%
   o/w Non Wage(excl interest payments)            14,345.46 30.3%            17,001.00 30.8%
   o/w Statutory Interest Payments              9,606.00 20.3%            11,332.73 20.6%

Development Expenditure            15,485.52 32.7%            18,238.70 33.1%
  o/w GoU              5,902.58 12.5%              6,911.63 12.5%
  o/w External Financing                9,582.94 20.2%            11,327.07 20.5%
Total Expenditure            47,371.73 100.0%            55,140.41 100.0%

Domestic Arrears                199.90              1,400.78 
Armotisation              3,149.24              4,985.79 
Domestic Debt Re-financing            12,021.70            10,027.84 
Domestic Debt Payment (BoU)              9,100.00                 493.00 
Local Govt expenditure from own revenue                293.90                 328.67 
Grand Total        72,136.47            72,376.48 

37

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



38

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26

ANNEX 3: MEDIUM TERM EXPENDITURE FRAMEWORK (MTEF) 2024/25 - 2029/30 (Excl. Arrears, External Debt Repayments, Debt Re-financing and AIA) Ushs.Bn.

                                                                                       FY 2024/25 Budget Estimates  FY 2025/26 Budget Estimates  FY 2026/27 Budget Estimates 
 Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl. 

 PROGRAMME/VOTE  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External 
 Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing 

 AGRO- INDUSTRIALISATION 
 010  Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry & Fisheries          23.67             34.83        479.05                644.95            537.56          1,182.51          36.93           298.93        114.84                496.76            450.70             947.45          38.78           356.40        161.90                439.97            557.08             997.05 
 011  Ministry of Local Government            0.12               0.28                -                          -                  0.40                 0.40            0.12               0.21                -                          -                  0.33                 0.33            0.13               0.25                -                          -                  0.37                 0.37 
 015  Trade, Industry and Cooperatives                -                 1.07                -                          -                  1.07                 1.07                -                 1.82                -                          -                  1.82                 1.82                -                 2.13                -                          -                  2.13                 2.13 
 019  Ministry of Water and Environment            1.60               0.02          44.46                284.31              46.08             330.39            1.60                   -            61.57                298.50              63.17             361.67            1.68                   -            70.81                  99.25              72.49             171.73 
 021  East African Community                -                 0.25                -                          -                  0.25                 0.25                -                 0.19                -                          -                  0.19                 0.19                -                 0.22                -                          -                  0.22                 0.22 
 108  National Planning Authority                -                 0.74                -                          -                  0.74                 0.74                -                 0.61                -                          -                  0.61                 0.61                -                 0.71                -                          -                  0.71                 0.71 
 121  Dairy Development Authority            3.70               4.76            2.49                        -                10.95               10.95                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                 0.35                -                          -                  0.35                 0.35                -                 0.27                -                          -                  0.27                 0.27                -                 0.32                -                          -                  0.32                 0.32 
 125  National Animal Genetic Res. Centre and Data Bank            5.74               4.96          28.34                        -                39.04               39.04            5.74               5.25          65.49                        -                76.48               76.48            6.02               6.15          75.31                        -                87.48               87.48 
 150  National Environment Management Authority                -                 1.00            1.00                        -                  2.00                 2.00                -                 0.70            0.90                        -                  1.60                 1.60                -                 0.82            1.04                        -                  1.85                 1.85 
 142  National Agricultural Research Organisation          43.46             27.39          34.96                        -              105.82             105.82          43.46             37.06        100.50                        -              181.02             181.02          45.64             43.36        115.58                        -              204.57             204.57 
 152  NAADS Secretariat            2.97             31.98            0.64                        -                35.59               35.59                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 154  Uganda National Bureau of Standards                -                 0.94                -                          -                  0.94                 0.94                -                 0.72                -                          -                  0.72                 0.72                -                 0.84                -                          -                  0.84                 0.84 
 155  Uganda Cotton Development Organisation            1.96               2.85            0.27                        -                  5.08                 5.08                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 160  Uganda Coffee Development Authority          10.13             54.54            3.32                        -                67.99               67.99                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 161  Uganda Free Zones Authority                -                 0.52                -                          -                  0.52                 0.52                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.12                -                          -                  0.12                 0.12 
 138  Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.20                -                          -                  0.20                 0.20                -                 0.23                -                          -                  0.23                 0.23 
 168  Uganda Freezones and Export Promotion Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.30                -                          -                  0.30                 0.30                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 8.13                -                          -                  8.13                 8.13                -                 8.13                -                          -                  8.13                 8.13 
 601  601-999 Local Governments        141.51             56.86          82.73                        -              281.10             281.10        167.99             68.79          40.42                        -              277.20             277.20        176.39             80.49          46.48                        -              303.35             303.35 

 SUB-TOTAL AGRO- INDUSTRIALISATION        234.85           223.33        677.26                929.26         1,135.45          2,064.71        255.84           423.28        383.71                795.25         1,062.83          1,858.09        268.63           500.17        471.11                539.22         1,239.91          1,779.12 

 MINERAL DEVELOPMENT 
 017  Energy and Minerals             5.50             15.39            9.00                  16.12              29.89               46.01                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 108  National Planning Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 138  Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 161  Uganda Free Zones Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                 0.05                -                          -                  0.05                 0.05                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL ENERGY DEVELOPMENT            5.50             15.44            9.00                  16.12              29.94               46.06                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUSTAINABLE EXTRACTIVES INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning & Economic Dev.                -             349.56                -                  379.74            349.56             729.30                -                 1.50                -                          -                  1.50                 1.50                -                 1.76                -                          -                  1.76                 1.76 
 013  Ministry of Education and Sports                -                 1.00                -                          -                  1.00                 1.00                -                 1.00                -                          -                  1.00                 1.00                -                 1.17                -                          -                  1.17                 1.17 
 017  Energy and Minerals             3.70               5.92          25.66                        -                35.28               35.28            9.20             53.37          56.96                653.39            119.53             772.92            9.66             62.44          65.50             1,511.99            137.61          1,649.59 
 139  Petroleum Authority of Uganda          24.50             24.14          11.57                        -                60.21               60.21          28.72             30.43          31.57                        -                90.72               90.72          30.15             35.60          36.30                        -              102.06             102.06 
 144  Uganda Police Force                -                 1.00            1.00                        -                  2.00                 2.00                -                 2.00                -                          -                  2.00                 2.00                -                 2.34                -                          -                  2.34                 2.34 
 154  Uganda National Bureau of Standards (UNBS)                -                 2.60                -                          -                  2.60                 2.60                -                 2.60                -                          -                  2.60                 2.60                -                 3.04                -                          -                  3.04                 3.04 
 150  National Environment Management Authority (NEMA)                -                 1.00            1.30                        -                  2.30                 2.30                -                 2.30            0.00                        -                  2.30                 2.30                -                 2.69            0.00                        -                  2.69                 2.69 
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs                 -                 0.44                -                      1.13                0.44                 1.57                -                 1.92                -                          -                  1.92                 1.92                -                 2.25                -                          -                  2.25                 2.25 
 007  Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs                -                 0.50                -                          -                  0.50                 0.50                -                 0.50                -                          -                  0.50                 0.50 
 500  Missions Abroad                -                 0.31                -                          -                  0.31                 0.31                -                 0.36                -                          -                  0.36                 0.36                -                 0.36                -                          -                  0.36                 0.36 

 SUB-TOTAL SUSTAINABLE EXTRACTIVES INDUSTRY D        28.20           386.46          39.53                380.87            454.19             835.06          37.92             95.98          88.53                653.39            222.42             875.81          39.81           111.65        101.81             1,511.99            253.27          1,765.25 

 TOURISM DEVELOPMENT 
 022  Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities            3.61           233.57          38.38                        -              275.56             275.56            3.61           293.56          47.03                        -              344.20             344.20            3.79           343.46          54.08                        -              401.34             401.34 
 117  Uganda Tourism Board            4.76             11.33            0.04                        -                16.13               16.13            4.76             51.53            0.04                        -                56.33               56.33            5.00             60.29            0.05                        -                65.34               65.34 
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                 0.60                -                          -                  0.60                 0.60                -                 0.60                -                          -                  0.60                 0.60                -                 0.70                -                          -                  0.70                 0.70 
 020  Ministry of ICT and National Guidance                -                 0.40                -                          -                  0.40                 0.40                -                 0.40                -                          -                  0.40                 0.40                -                 0.47                -                          -                  0.47                 0.47 
 605  601-999 Local Governments                -                 0.76            1.14                        -                  1.90                 1.90                -                 1.90                -                          -                  1.90                 1.90 
 500  Missions Abroad                -                 3.30                -                          -                  3.30                 3.30                -               26.59                -                          -                26.59               26.59                -               26.59                -                          -                26.59               26.59 

 SUB-TOTAL TOURISM DEVELOPMENT            8.37           249.96          39.56                        -              297.90             297.90            8.37           374.58          47.07                        -              430.02             430.02            8.79           431.51          54.13                        -              494.43             494.43 

 CLIMATE CHANGE, NATURAL RESOURCE, ENVIRONMENT AND WATER MANAGEMENT 
 003  Office of the Prime Minister            0.34             15.35                -                          -                15.68               15.68            0.41             20.30                -                          -                20.70               20.70            0.43             23.75                -                          -                24.17               24.17 
 011  Ministry of Local Government                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 012  Ministry of Lands, Housing & Urban Development            8.71             11.24            4.63                  98.23              24.58             122.81                -                 0.10            3.00                        -                  3.10                 3.10                -                 0.12            3.45                        -                  3.57                 3.57 
 019  Ministry of Water and Environment          10.61             14.65          46.87                  95.76              72.13             167.89          18.35             32.48          72.43                105.60            123.26             228.86          19.27             38.00          83.30                713.48            140.57             854.05 
 108  National Planning Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -               17.96            1.34                        -                19.30               19.30                -               17.96                -                          -                17.96               17.96                -               21.01                -                          -                21.01               21.01 
 150  National Environment Management Authority          12.17             10.54            3.23                        -                25.93               25.93          13.92             16.54            7.23                        -                37.69               37.69          14.61             19.35            8.31                        -                42.28               42.28 
 156  Uganda Land Commission            0.68               6.77          16.92                        -                24.36               24.36                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 157  National Forestry Authority            9.68             11.12            4.13                  49.07              24.93               74.00            9.68             16.50            4.13                  17.16              30.31               47.47          10.17             19.30            4.75                  17.52              34.22               51.74 
 109  Uganda National Meteorological Authority            9.01               5.35            0.26                        -                14.63               14.63                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 606  601-999 Local Governments                -                 4.82                -                      4.29                4.82                 9.11                -               10.32                -                          -                10.32               10.32                -               12.07                -                          -                12.07               12.07 

 SUB-TOTAL CLIMATE CHANGE, NATURAL RESOURCE         51.19             97.79          77.38                247.36            226.36             473.72          42.36           114.19          86.79                122.76            243.34             366.10          44.47           133.60          99.81                731.01            277.89          1,008.90 

 PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning & Economic Dev.            0.30        1,514.89            2.24                410.39         1,517.43          1,927.82            1.05        1,893.57                -                  368.06         1,894.62          2,262.68            4.63        1,595.85                -                  273.03         1,600.48          1,873.51 
 015  Ministry of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives            1.15               1.29                -                          -                  2.44                 2.44            1.15               2.21                -                          -                  3.36                 3.36            1.21               2.59                -                          -                  3.79                 3.79 
 021  East African Community                -                 1.73                -                          -                  1.73                 1.73                -                 1.73                -                          -                  1.73                 1.73                -                 2.02                -                          -                  2.02                 2.02 
 023  Ministry of Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

1 of 11



39

ANNEX 3: MEDIUM TERM EXPENDITURE FRAMEWORK (MTEF) 2024/25 - 2029/30 (Excl. Arrears, External Debt Repayments, Debt Re-financing and AIA) Ushs.Bn.

                                                                                       FY 2024/25 Budget Estimates  FY 2025/26 Budget Estimates  FY 2026/27 Budget Estimates 
 Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl. 

 PROGRAMME/VOTE  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External 
 Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing 

 108  National Planning Authority                -                 0.25                -                          -                  0.25                 0.25                -                 0.25                -                          -                  0.25                 0.25                -                 0.29                -                          -                  0.29                 0.29 
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau            4.35               5.01            0.12                        -                  9.48                 9.48            4.35               5.13                -                          -                  9.48                 9.48            4.57               6.00                -                          -                10.57               10.57 
 123  National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 153  PPDA            0.94               0.38                -                          -                  1.32                 1.32            0.94               1.62                -                          -                  2.56                 2.56            0.99               1.90                -                          -                  2.88                 2.88 
 154  Uganda National Bureau of Standards          25.86             20.50            4.55                        -                50.90               50.90          25.86             67.50          35.55                        -              128.91             128.91          27.15             78.98          40.88                        -              147.01             147.01 
 136  Uganda Export Promotion Board            1.56               5.08            0.03                        -                  6.67                 6.67                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 138  Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)            6.83               5.07            0.52                        -                12.42               12.42            6.83             17.30        217.97                        -              242.10             242.10            7.17             20.24        250.66                        -              278.08             278.08 
 140  Capital Markets Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 161  Uganda Free Zones Authority            2.71               2.12            2.34                        -                  7.17                 7.17                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 162  Uganda Microfinance Regulatory Authority            3.36               4.95            0.22                        -                  8.52                 8.52                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 163  Uganda Retirement Benefits Regulatory Authority            7.82               5.60                -                          -                13.42               13.42            7.82               5.76            0.72                        -                14.30               14.30            8.21               6.74            0.83                        -                15.78               15.78 
 500  Missions Abroad                -                 1.51                -                          -                  1.51                 1.51                -               12.71                -                          -                12.71               12.71                -               12.71                -                          -                12.71               12.71 
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.50                -                          -                  0.50                 0.50                -                 0.59                -                          -                  0.59                 0.59 
 110  Uganda Industrial Research Institute                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.50                -                          -                  0.50                 0.50                -                 0.59                -                          -                  0.59                 0.59 
 168  Uganda Freezones and Export Promotion Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -              7.71               6.41            2.36                        -                16.47               16.47            8.09               7.50            2.71                        -                18.30               18.30 
 167  Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.50                -                          -                  0.50                 0.50                -                 0.59                -                          -                  0.59                 0.59 
 607  601-999 Local Governments                -                 2.23            0.74                        -                  2.97                 2.97                -                 8.08            0.79                        -                  8.87                 8.87                -                 9.46            0.91                        -                10.36               10.36 

 SUB-TOTAL PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT          54.88        1,570.60          10.75                410.39         1,636.22          2,046.62          55.71        2,023.77        257.39                368.06         2,336.86          2,704.92          62.02        1,746.02        296.00                273.03         2,104.03          2,377.06 

 MANUFACTURING 
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs                -                 0.09                -                          -                  0.09                 0.09                -                 1.20                -                          -                  1.20                 1.20                -                 1.40                -                          -                  1.40                 1.40 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 015  Trade, Industry and Cooperatives            1.75           154.39            4.82                        -              160.95             160.95            3.19           208.18            6.28                        -              217.64             217.64            3.35           243.57            7.22                        -              254.14             254.14 
 110  Uganda Industrial Research Institute                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.30                -                          -                  0.30                 0.30                -                 0.35                -                          -                  0.35                 0.35 
 138  Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)            0.54               0.01                -                  155.56                0.55             156.11            0.54               0.30                -                    90.97                0.84               91.81            0.57               0.35                -                    49.22                0.92               50.13 
 154  Uganda National Bureau of Standards                -                 0.59                -                          -                  0.59                 0.59                -                 0.66                -                          -                  0.66                 0.66                -                 0.77                -                          -                  0.77                 0.77 
 161  Uganda Free Zones Authority                -                 0.03                -                          -                  0.03                 0.03                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 108  National Planning Authority                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.12                -                          -                  0.12                 0.12 
 136  Uganda Export Promotion Board                -                 0.30                -                          -                  0.30                 0.30                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 007  Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs                -                 0.20                -                          -                  0.20                 0.20                -                 0.20                -                          -                  0.20                 0.20                -                 0.23                -                          -                  0.23                 0.23 
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.20                -                          -                  0.20                 0.20                -                 0.23                -                          -                  0.23                 0.23 
 168  Uganda Freezones and Export Promotion Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL MANUFACTURING            2.29           155.70            4.82                155.56            162.81             318.37            3.73           211.14            6.28                  90.97            221.14             312.11            3.91           247.03            7.22                  49.22            258.16             307.38 

 INTEGRATED TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES 
 016  Works and Transport          15.40           138.12        484.05             1,365.59            637.57          2,003.16          53.27           677.55        889.45             4,070.70         1,620.27          5,690.97          55.93           792.73     1,022.87             5,737.29         1,871.53          7,608.82 
 023  Ministry of Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 113  Uganda National Roads Authority (UNRA)          68.55             24.66        417.50             1,311.46            510.71          1,822.18                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 118  Road Fund            3.95           399.29                -                          -              403.23             403.23                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  KCCA Road Rehabilitation Grant                -                     -          161.07                308.01            161.07             469.08                -                     -          202.00                264.51            202.00             466.51                -                     -          232.30                271.38            232.30             503.68 
 609  601-999 Local Governments                -             176.00          44.31                        -              220.31             220.31                -             176.00          50.12                        -              226.12             226.12                -             205.92          57.64                        -              263.56             263.56 

 SUB-TOTAL INTEGRATED TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTU       87.90           738.06     1,106.93             2,985.06         1,932.90          4,917.96          53.27           853.55     1,141.57             4,335.21         2,048.38          6,383.60          55.93           998.65     1,312.81             6,008.67         2,367.39          8,376.06 

 SUSTAINABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT 
 013  Ministry of Education and Sports                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 017  Energy and Minerals             7.51             33.46        141.59                947.45            182.57          1,130.02            7.80             56.88        301.53                660.55            366.20          1,026.75            8.18             68.27        346.76             1,370.60            423.22          1,793.82 
 150  National Environment Management Authority (NEMA)                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.12                -                          -                  0.12                 0.12 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development                 -                 2.61                -                          -                  2.61                 2.61                -                 3.00                -                          -                  3.00                 3.00                -                 3.51                -                          -                  3.51                 3.51 
 012  Ministry of Lands, Housing & Urban Development                 -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.50                -                          -                  0.50                 0.50                -                 0.59                -                          -                  0.59                 0.59 
 154  Uganda National Bureau of Standards (UNBS)                -                 0.95                -                          -                  0.95                 0.95                -                 0.95                -                          -                  0.95                 0.95                -                 1.11                -                          -                  1.11                 1.11 
 007  Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs                 -                 0.50                -                          -                  0.50                 0.50                -                 0.50                -                          -                  0.50                 0.50                -                 0.59                -                          -                  0.59                 0.59 
 005  Ministry of Public Service                 -                 0.50                -                          -                  0.50                 0.50                -                 0.50                -                          -                  0.50                 0.50                -                 0.59                -                          -                  0.59                 0.59 
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs                 -                 0.59                -                          -                  0.59                 0.59                -                 0.59                -                          -                  0.59                 0.59                -                 0.68                -                          -                  0.68                 0.68 
 308  Soroti University                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 2.00                -                          -                  2.00                 2.00                -                 4.34                -                          -                  4.34                 4.34 
500  Missions Abroad                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL SUSTAINABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT            7.51             38.71        141.59                947.45            187.81          1,135.27            7.80             65.01        301.53                660.55            374.34          1,034.88            8.18             79.79        346.76             1,370.60            434.73          1,805.34 

 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION 
 013  Ministry of Education and Sports                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 020  Ministry of ICT and National Guidance            1.79             38.01            0.57                        -                40.37               40.37          13.13             90.57            0.57                        -              104.27             104.27          13.78           105.97            0.66                        -              120.41             120.41 
 111  National Curriculum Development Centre                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 123  National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 126  National Information Technology Authority            8.85             16.83            0.02                162.53              25.69             188.22          10.31             30.07          40.02                197.08              80.39             277.48          10.82             35.18          46.02                228.74              92.02             320.76 

 SUB-TOTAL  DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION          10.63             54.84            0.59                162.53              66.06             228.59          23.44           120.64          40.59                197.08            184.67             381.75          24.61           141.15          46.68                228.74            212.43             441.17 

 SUSTAINABLE URBANISATION AND HOUSING 
 011  Ministry of Local Government            1.11               0.02                -                          -                  1.13                 1.13            1.11               0.50                -                          -                  1.61                 1.61            1.17               0.59                -                          -                  1.75                 1.75 
 012  Ministry of Lands, Housing & Urban Development            7.69             79.93            6.34                  35.44              93.97             129.41          16.69             99.40          39.58                  86.45            155.67             242.12          17.53           116.30          45.51                        -              179.33             179.33 
 016  Ministry of Works and Transport            1.78               0.99                -                          -                  2.77                 2.77            1.78               1.20                -                          -                  2.98                 2.98            1.87               1.40                -                          -                  3.27                 3.27 
 023  Ministry of Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs                -                 0.12                -                  444.40                0.12             444.53                -               13.99          15.00             1,162.77              28.99          1,191.76                -               16.37          17.25             1,218.23              33.62          1,251.85 
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.50                -                          -                  0.50                 0.50                -                 0.59                -                          -                  0.59                 0.59 
 161  Uganda Free Zones Authority                -                 0.05                -                          -                  0.05                 0.05                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

2 of 11

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



40

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26

ANNEX 3: MEDIUM TERM EXPENDITURE FRAMEWORK (MTEF) 2024/25 - 2029/30 (Excl. Arrears, External Debt Repayments, Debt Re-financing and AIA) Ushs.Bn.

                                                                                       FY 2024/25 Budget Estimates  FY 2025/26 Budget Estimates  FY 2026/27 Budget Estimates 
 Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl. 

 PROGRAMME/VOTE  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External 
 Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing 

 168  Uganda Freezones and Export Promotion Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 108  National Planning Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 5.90                -                          -                  5.90                 5.90                -                 6.90                -                          -                  6.90                 6.90 
 156  Uganda Land Commission                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -              1.09             16.94          26.92                        -                44.95               44.95                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 610  601-999 Local Governments                -                     -                  -                    52.51                    -                 52.51                -                     -                  -                      2.01                    -                   2.01                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL SUSTAINABLE URBANISATION AND HOUS         10.58             81.12            6.34                532.35              98.05             630.40          20.67           138.42          81.50             1,251.24            240.59          1,491.83          20.56           142.14          62.76             1,218.23            225.47          1,443.70 

 HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT 
 003  Office of the Prime Minister                    -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -              6.04                   -                  -                          -                  6.04                 6.04            6.35                   -                  -                  330.72                6.35             337.07 
 011  Ministry of Local Government                -                 0.02                -                          -                  0.02                 0.02                -                 0.02                -                          -                  0.02                 0.02                -                 0.02                -                          -                  0.02                 0.02 
 013  Ministry of Education and Sports          46.68           281.43          34.75                489.94            362.85             852.79          53.07           451.02          35.93                288.56            540.02             828.58          55.73           577.69          91.31                241.76            724.74             966.50 
 014  Ministry of Health          22.35           129.48          66.31             1,125.72            218.13          1,343.86          22.69           131.67        148.18             1,261.60            302.54          1,564.14          23.82           204.06        220.40                373.31            448.28             821.59 
 018  Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development            2.73           148.82                -                  205.34            151.55             356.89            5.67           290.40            2.56                138.37            298.64             437.00            5.95           339.77            2.95                  77.54            348.68             426.21 
 019  Ministry of Water and Environment            4.09               0.45        125.41                396.31            129.95             526.26            4.09               0.45        208.30                628.00            212.84             840.85            4.29               0.52        239.55                        -              244.37             244.37 
 021  East African Community                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 107  Uganda AIDS Commission            6.12             10.12            0.56                        -                16.79               16.79            6.12             19.72            0.56                        -                26.39               26.39            6.42             23.07            0.64                        -                30.13               30.13 
 108  National Planning Authority                -                 7.60                -                          -                  7.60                 7.60                -                 9.86                -                          -                  9.86                 9.86                -               11.54                -                          -                11.54               11.54 
 305  Busitema University          37.56             14.61            5.38                        -                57.55               57.55          37.56             24.18          11.40                        -                73.15               73.15          39.43             28.30          13.12                        -                80.85               80.85 
 114  Uganda Cancer Institute          19.16             39.61          14.11                  57.04              72.88             129.92          26.08             50.63        101.61                  47.73            178.32             226.04          27.38             59.23        116.85                  61.41            203.47             264.88 
 115  Uganda Heart Institute          16.05             30.61            8.03                  92.81              54.68             147.49          18.06             31.14            8.03                  61.50              57.23             118.73          18.96             36.43            9.24                  78.20              64.63             142.83 
 116  National Medical Stores          20.32           694.73            5.99                        -              721.04             721.04          20.32           695.85            1.43                        -              717.60             717.60          21.34           914.14            1.65                        -              937.13             937.13 
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority          63.60             14.33            3.16                        -                81.10               81.10          62.07             24.60                -                          -                86.67               86.67          65.18             28.78                -                          -                93.95               93.95 
 124  Equal Opportunities Commission                -                 0.77                -                          -                  0.77                 0.77                -                 3.95                -                          -                  3.95                 3.95                -                 4.62                -                          -                  4.62                 4.62 
 306  Muni University          23.58               7.97            4.28                        -                35.82               35.82          23.75             11.87            3.76                        -                39.38               39.38          24.94             13.88            4.32                        -                43.15               43.15 
 128  Uganda National Examinations Board          13.93           103.67          11.54                        -              129.15             129.15          17.13           132.81          10.41                        -              160.35             160.35          17.99           155.39          11.97                        -              185.35             185.35 
 132  Education Service Commission            2.89               6.14            2.19                        -                11.22               11.22            3.15               7.75            1.58                        -                12.49               12.49            3.31               9.07            1.82                        -                14.20               14.20 
 134  Health Service Commission            2.58               8.59            0.05                        -                11.22               11.22            2.84             11.36            7.05                        -                21.24               21.24            2.98             13.29            8.10                        -                24.37               24.37 
 138  Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 149  National Population Council            2.99               4.21                -                          -                  7.20                 7.20                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 301  Makerere University        221.61           121.77          13.84                        -              357.21             357.21        221.61           135.08          23.39                  10.53            380.08             390.61        232.69           158.05          26.90                108.17            417.64             525.80 
 302  Mbarara University          41.83             15.35            3.56                        -                60.73               60.73          43.33             23.48          34.74                        -              101.54             101.54          45.49             27.47          39.95                        -              112.91             112.91 
 303  Makerere University Business School          84.08             37.97            1.91                        -              123.97             123.97          91.79             60.60            1.88                        -              154.28             154.28          96.38             70.90            2.16                        -              169.45             169.45 
 304  Kyambogo University          67.17             67.78            3.32                        -              138.27             138.27          67.17             78.70            3.99                        -              149.86             149.86          70.53             92.08            4.59                        -              167.20             167.20 
 312  Uganda Management Institute          20.10             20.51                -                          -                40.61               40.61          22.63             21.38                -                          -                44.01               44.01          23.76             25.02                -                          -                48.78               48.78 
 313  Mountains of the Moon University          25.22             14.00            2.01                        -                41.22               41.22          25.22             15.93            5.15                        -                46.30               46.30          26.48             18.64            5.92                        -                51.04               51.04 
 309  Gulu University          41.43             22.72            6.90                        -                71.06               71.06          45.70             30.91          19.32                        -                95.93               95.93          47.98             36.16          22.22                        -              106.37             106.37 
 151  Uganda Blood Transfusion Service (UBTS)            6.88             20.53            1.67                        -                29.07               29.07          12.36             28.33            4.13                        -                44.81               44.81          12.97             33.15            4.75                        -                50.87               50.87 
 401  Mulago Hospital Complex          50.14             56.73            4.73                    7.61            111.60             119.21          50.25             64.57          23.24                        -              138.06             138.06          52.76             75.54          26.73                        -              155.04             155.04 
 402  Butabika Hospital            9.58               9.38            2.26                        -                21.23               21.23            9.60             10.98            2.26                        -                22.84               22.84          10.08             12.84            2.60                        -                25.53               25.53 
 403  Arua Referral Hospital            8.98               3.62            0.11                        -                12.71               12.71            9.00               4.39            4.61                        -                17.99               17.99            9.45               5.13            5.30                        -                19.88               19.88 
 404  Fort Portal Referral Hospital            9.82               3.71            0.11                        -                13.64               13.64            9.82               4.56            0.11                        -                14.49               14.49          10.31               5.34            0.12                        -                15.78               15.78 
 405  Gulu Referral Hospital            9.34               6.18            0.11                        -                15.64               15.64          10.35               6.47            0.11                        -                16.94               16.94          10.87               7.58            0.12                        -                18.57               18.57 
 406  Hoima Referral Hospital          10.00               3.39            0.11                        -                13.50               13.50          10.00               4.12            0.11                        -                14.23               14.23          10.50               4.82            0.12                        -                15.45               15.45 
 407  Jinja Referral Hospital          13.17               8.87            0.11                        -                22.14               22.14          13.21               8.97            0.11                        -                22.30               22.30          13.87             10.50            0.12                        -                24.50               24.50 
 408  Kabale Referral Hospital            6.98               5.04            0.11                        -                12.13               12.13            7.48               6.13            0.11                        -                13.72               13.72            7.86               7.17            0.12                        -                15.15               15.15 
 409  Masaka Referral Hospital            8.88               3.64            0.11                        -                12.63               12.63            9.90               4.62            0.11                        -                14.63               14.63          10.39               5.41            0.12                        -                15.92               15.92 
 410  Mbale Referral Hospital          11.31               9.87            0.11                        -                21.28               21.28          11.84               7.94            1.41                        -                21.19               21.19          12.43               9.28            1.62                        -                23.34               23.34 
 411  Soroti Referral Hospital            8.42               3.44            0.11                        -                11.97               11.97            8.44               3.33            0.11                        -                11.88               11.88            8.86               3.89            0.12                        -                12.88               12.88 
 412  Lira Referral Hospital          10.02               7.56            0.11                        -                17.69               17.69          10.03               8.24            0.11                        -                18.38               18.38          10.53               9.64            0.12                        -                20.30               20.30 
 413  Mbarara Referral Hospital            9.42               8.36            0.11                        -                17.89               17.89          11.44               9.21            0.11                        -                20.76               20.76          12.01             10.77            0.12                        -                22.91               22.91 
 414  Mubende Referral Hospital          11.10               2.44            0.14                        -                13.67               13.67          11.11               3.20            0.14                        -                14.45               14.45          11.67               3.74            0.16                        -                15.57               15.57 
 415  Moroto Referral Hospital            8.04               4.11            0.11                        -                12.26               12.26            8.05               4.33            0.11                        -                12.48               12.48            8.45               5.06            0.12                        -                13.63               13.63 
 416  Naguru Referral Hospital          10.73               1.88            0.22                        -                12.82               12.82          10.77               4.88            7.22                        -                22.87               22.87          11.31               5.71            8.30                        -                25.32               25.32 
 417  Kiruddu Referral Hospital          11.09             14.16            1.38                        -                26.63               26.63          11.12             16.90            1.38                        -                29.39               29.39          11.68             19.77            1.58                        -                33.03               33.03 
 418  Kawempe Referral Hospital          15.04               7.78            0.81                        -                23.63               23.63          15.08             11.17            0.81                        -                27.06               27.06          15.83             13.07            0.93                        -                29.84               29.84 
 419  Entebbe Regional Referral Hospital            8.10               2.85            0.81                        -                11.76               11.76            9.12               7.59            0.81                        -                17.52               17.52            9.57               8.88            0.93                        -                19.39               19.39 
 420  Mulago Specialized Women and Neonatal Hospital          16.10             12.95            2.04                        -                31.09               31.09          16.10             16.42            2.04                        -                34.56               34.56          16.90             19.21            2.35                        -                38.46               38.46 
 421  Kayunga Referral Hospital            5.82               6.94                -                          -                12.76               12.76            6.83               8.85            0.30                        -                15.99               15.99            7.18             10.36            0.35                        -                17.88               17.88 
 422  Yumbe Referral Hospital            6.28               5.51                -                          -                11.80               11.80            7.30               6.19            0.10                        -                13.59               13.59            7.66               7.24            0.12                        -                15.02               15.02 
 310  Lira University          25.24               9.48            4.50                        -                39.21               39.21          28.78             12.89            4.25                        -                45.91               45.91          30.21             15.08            4.89                        -                50.18               50.18 
 111  National Curriculum Development Centre            9.65             13.35            0.45                        -                23.45               23.45            9.65             28.09            0.40                        -                38.14               38.14          10.13             32.87            0.45                        -                43.45               43.45 
 127  Uganda Virus Research Institute (UVRI)            2.42               4.80                -                          -                  7.21                 7.21            3.91               5.44                -                          -                  9.34                 9.34            4.10               6.36                -                          -                10.46               10.46 
 307  Kabale University          43.70             16.94            2.33                        -                62.97               62.97          43.70             24.69            2.06                        -                70.45               70.45          45.89             28.89            2.36                        -                77.14               77.14 
 308  Soroti University          20.77               8.23          10.13                        -                39.12               39.12          24.65             15.07          10.99                        -                50.71               50.71          25.88             17.64          12.64                        -                56.15               56.15 
 164  National Council for Higher Education            7.79               9.43                -                          -                17.23               17.23            7.79               9.16            0.10                        -                17.05               17.05            8.18             10.71            0.12                        -                19.01               19.01 
 165  Uganda Business  and Technical Examination Board            6.17             29.32            2.80                        -                38.29               38.29                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 169  Uganda Vocational and Technical Assessment Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -            10.00             50.13            8.99                        -                69.12               69.12          21.01           105.60          20.67                        -              147.28             147.28 
 166  National Council of Sports            3.01           158.29        101.35                        -              262.65             262.65            3.01             54.12        446.54                        -              503.67             503.67            3.16             63.32        513.52                        -              580.00             580.00 
 500  Missions Abroad                -                 0.34                -                          -                  0.34                 0.34                -                 0.34                -                          -                  0.34                 0.34                -                 0.34                -                          -                  0.34                 0.34 
 612  601-999 Local Governments     2,752.84           661.37        398.77                        -           3,812.99          3,812.99     2,938.62           685.95        276.18                        -           3,900.75          3,900.75     3,085.56           832.11        516.19                        -           4,433.85          4,433.85 

 SUB-TOTAL HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT     3,922.89        2,923.74        848.98             2,374.76         7,695.61        10,070.37     4,175.42        3,400.62     1,428.30             2,436.28         9,004.33        11,440.61     4,394.69        4,255.17     1,951.45             1,271.10       10,601.31        11,872.41 

 INNOVATION, TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSFER 
 002  State House                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs                -                 0.37                -                          -                  0.37                 0.37                -                 0.37                -                          -                  0.37                 0.37                -                 0.43                -                          -                  0.43                 0.43 

3 of 11



41

ANNEX 3: MEDIUM TERM EXPENDITURE FRAMEWORK (MTEF) 2024/25 - 2029/30 (Excl. Arrears, External Debt Repayments, Debt Re-financing and AIA) Ushs.Bn.

                                                                                       FY 2024/25 Budget Estimates  FY 2025/26 Budget Estimates  FY 2026/27 Budget Estimates 
 Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl. 

 PROGRAMME/VOTE  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External 
 Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing 

 110  Uganda Industrial Research Institute          10.33               9.11            2.89                        -                22.33               22.33          10.33               9.11            2.89                        -                22.33               22.33          10.84             10.66            3.33                        -                24.83               24.83 
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau            0.98               1.12                -                          -                  2.10                 2.10            0.98               1.12                -                          -                  2.10                 2.10            1.03               1.31                -                          -                  2.33                 2.33 
 167  Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation            4.16           314.84            3.00                        -              322.00             322.00            4.16           317.91          41.00                        -              363.07             363.07            4.37           371.96          47.15                        -              423.47             423.47 
 500  Missions Abroad                -                 0.12                -                          -                  0.12                 0.12                -                 0.37                -                          -                  0.37                 0.37                -                 0.37                -                          -                  0.37                 0.37 

 SUB-TOTAL INNOVATION, TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME         15.47           325.55            5.89                        -              346.91             346.91          15.47           328.88          43.89                        -              388.23             388.23          16.24           384.72          50.47                        -              451.44             451.44 

 COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION AND MINDSET CHANGE 
 001  Office of the President                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 013  Ministry of Education and Sports                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 018  Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development            1.64             48.40            2.56                        -                52.61               52.61                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 020  Ministry of ICT and National Guidance            1.02                   -                  -                          -                  1.02                 1.02                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 112  Directorate of Ethics and Integrity                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau            6.04                   -                  -                          -                  6.04                 6.04                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                 0.56                -                          -                  0.56                 0.56                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 123  National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 124  Equal Opportunities Commission                -                 1.23                -                          -                  1.23                 1.23                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 149  National Population Council            0.24                   -                  -                          -                  0.24                 0.24                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 615  601-999 Local Governments                -                 7.64                -                          -                  7.64                 7.64                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION AND MINDSE           8.95             57.83            2.56                        -                69.35               69.35                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 GOVERNANCE AND SECURITY 
 001  Office of the President          27.23           212.74          20.12                        -              260.10             260.10          31.38           279.94          20.12                        -              331.45             331.45          32.95           327.53          23.14                        -              383.63             383.63 
 002  State House          31.49           399.06          21.72                        -              452.27             452.27          37.75           443.11          27.72                        -              508.58             508.58          39.64           518.44          31.88                        -              589.96             589.96 
 003  Office of the Prime Minister            0.21               0.73                -                          -                  0.95                 0.95            0.33               2.26                -                          -                  2.58                 2.58            0.34               2.64                -                          -                  2.98                 2.98 
 004  Ministry of Defence     1,266.85        1,356.18     1,873.09                253.25         4,496.12          4,749.37     1,391.51        1,509.26     1,773.09                255.98         4,673.85          4,929.83     1,461.08        1,799.15     1,863.03                        -           5,123.26          5,123.26 
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs            6.31             11.43            2.75                        -                20.48               20.48          14.12             26.03            3.55                        -                43.71               43.71          14.82             30.46            4.09                        -                49.37               49.37 
 007  Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs          16.12           114.35            8.64                        -              139.10             139.10          16.57             87.31          16.64                        -              120.52             120.52          17.40           102.15          19.13                        -              138.68             138.68 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning & Economic Dev.                -                 2.02                -                          -                  2.02                 2.02                -                 3.44                -                          -                  3.44                 3.44                -                 4.03                -                          -                  4.03                 4.03 
 009  Ministry of Internal Affairs            2.51             29.44            0.69                        -                32.65               32.65            3.22             46.76            0.69                        -                50.67               50.67            3.38             54.71            0.79                        -                58.89               58.89 
 011  Ministry of Local Government            0.28               0.19                -                          -                  0.47                 0.47            0.28               0.19                -                          -                  0.47                 0.47            0.30               0.22                -                          -                  0.52                 0.52 
 018  Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development            0.00                   -                  -                          -                  0.00                 0.00            0.00                   -                  -                          -                  0.00                 0.00            0.00                   -                  -                          -                  0.00                 0.00 
 021  East African Community            0.96             37.88            0.09                        -                38.94               38.94            1.57             37.90            0.09                        -                39.57               39.57            1.65             44.35            0.11                        -                46.10               46.10 
 102  Electoral Commission          38.39           452.00          65.41                        -              555.80             555.80          38.39           549.25            3.35                        -              590.99             590.99          40.31           642.62            3.85                        -              686.78             686.78 
 103  Inspectorate of Government (IG)          23.84             30.00          14.00                        -                67.84               67.84          24.47             32.40          22.80                        -                79.67               79.67          25.70             39.69          26.22                        -                91.60               91.60 
 105  Law Reform Commission            3.42             12.72            0.38                        -                16.52               16.52            3.42             12.56            0.38                        -                16.35               16.35            3.59             14.69            0.43                        -                18.72               18.72 
 106  Uganda Human Rights Commission            9.02             11.02            0.48                        -                20.52               20.52          11.02             15.19            6.77                        -                32.97               32.97          11.57             17.77            7.78                        -                37.12               37.12 
 311  Law Development Centre          10.10             17.05            4.05                        -                31.20               31.20                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 112  Ethics and Integrity            3.24             10.18            0.06                        -                13.49               13.49            3.75             10.04            0.06                        -                13.86               13.86            3.94             11.75            0.07                        -                15.76               15.76 
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau            7.72             22.79            1.20                        -                31.71               31.71            7.08             35.92            3.90                        -                46.89               46.89            7.43             42.02            4.49                        -                53.94               53.94 
 120  National Citizenship and Immigration Control            5.28           135.26            3.45                        -              143.99             143.99            6.85           163.20          20.54                        -              190.59             190.59            7.20           190.94          23.62                        -              221.76             221.76 
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 123  National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 124  Equal Opportunities Commission                -                 1.22                -                          -                  1.22                 1.22                -                 1.22                -                          -                  1.22                 1.22                -                 1.42                -                          -                  1.42                 1.42 
 129  Financial Intelligence Authority (FIA)            9.59             23.45            0.66                        -                33.70               33.70          12.38             32.38            1.48                        -                46.23               46.23          13.00             37.88            1.70                        -                52.58               52.58 
 130  Treasury Operations                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 131  Auditor General          48.52             29.13            0.76                        -                78.41               78.41          48.52             59.51            1.57                        -              109.60             109.60          50.95             69.62            1.80                        -              122.38             122.38 
 133  Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions          28.23             31.96          15.34                        -                75.52               75.52                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 144  Uganda Police Force        495.50           266.36        163.26                        -              925.12             925.12        522.48           409.28        266.27                        -           1,198.03          1,198.03        548.60           478.86        306.21                        -           1,333.67          1,333.67 
 145  Uganda Prisons        120.41           194.75          31.37                        -              346.54             346.54        149.04           320.81          58.71                        -              528.56             528.56        156.50           375.35          67.51                        -              599.36             599.36 
 148  Judicial Service Commission                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 153  PPDA          12.01               5.82            1.30                        -                19.13               19.13          13.65             10.89            1.30                        -                25.83               25.83          14.33             12.74            1.49                        -                28.56               28.56 
 158  Internal Security Organisation (ISO)          73.81           127.92          10.68                        -              212.42             212.42          82.00           156.76          10.24                        -              249.00             249.00          86.10           183.40          11.78                        -              281.28             281.28 
 159  External Security Organisation          25.79             82.40            1.00                        -              109.20             109.20          27.04             87.49            0.70                        -              115.23             115.23          28.40           102.36            0.81                        -              131.56             131.56 
 500  Missions Abroad          39.37           196.68          59.89                        -              295.94             295.94          41.21           231.25          55.69                        -              328.15             328.15          41.21           231.25          55.69                        -              328.15             328.15 
 135  Directorate of Government Analytical Laboratory            3.64             15.63          22.73                        -                42.00               42.00            3.67             13.86          22.73                        -                40.26               40.26            3.85             16.22          26.14                        -                46.21               46.21 
 023  Ministry of Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs            0.26               0.50                -                  0.76                 0.76            0.32               0.50                -                  0.82                 0.82                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 137  National Identification and Registration Authority (NIRA)          19.35             85.78          86.30                        -              191.43             191.43          20.36           220.32          13.90                        -              254.58             254.58          21.38           257.77          15.98                        -              295.13             295.13 

 SUB-TOTAL GOVERNANCE AND SECURITY     2,329.50        3,916.64     2,409.41                253.25         8,655.55          8,908.80     2,512.39        4,799.01     2,332.28                255.98         9,643.68          9,899.66     2,635.62        5,610.04     2,497.75                        -         10,743.41        10,743.41 

 PUBLIC SECTOR TRANSFORMATION 
 005  Ministry of Public Service            4.28             16.11            1.74                        -                22.12               22.12            6.35             28.57          10.49                        -                45.41               45.41            6.67             33.42          12.07                        -                52.16               52.16 
 011  Ministry of Local Government            8.77             12.27            6.45                        -                27.49               27.49                -                 9.19                -                          -                  9.19                 9.19                -               10.75                -                          -                10.75               10.75 
 020  Ministry of Information, and Communications Technology                -                 1.14                -                          -                  1.14                 1.14                -                 1.14                -                          -                  1.14                 1.14                -                 1.33                -                          -                  1.33                 1.33 
 021  East African Community                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 023  Ministry of Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 103  Inspectorate of Government (IG)            3.84               3.24                -                          -                  7.08                 7.08            3.84               5.22                -                          -                  9.06                 9.06            4.03               6.11                -                          -                10.14               10.14 
 108  National Planning Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 111  National Curriculum Development Centre                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority          79.90             41.15                -                          -              121.04             121.04        104.26             54.55                -                          -              158.81             158.81        109.48             63.82                -                          -              173.30             173.30 
 123  National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 126  National Information Technologies Authority                -                 0.81                -                          -                  0.81                 0.81                -                 0.81                -                          -                  0.81                 0.81                -                 0.95                -                          -                  0.95                 0.95 
 137  National Identification and Registration Authority (NIRA)                -                 0.27                -                          -                  0.27                 0.27                -                 0.27                -                          -                  0.27                 0.27                -                 0.32                -                          -                  0.32                 0.32 
 146  Public Service Commission            3.48               8.65            0.00                        -                12.13               12.13            3.74             17.93            2.54                        -                24.21               24.21            3.93             20.98            2.92                        -                27.83               27.83 

4 of 11

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



42

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26

ANNEX 3: MEDIUM TERM EXPENDITURE FRAMEWORK (MTEF) 2024/25 - 2029/30 (Excl. Arrears, External Debt Repayments, Debt Re-financing and AIA) Ushs.Bn.

                                                                                       FY 2024/25 Budget Estimates  FY 2025/26 Budget Estimates  FY 2026/27 Budget Estimates 
 Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl. 

 PROGRAMME/VOTE  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External 
 Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing 

 147  Local Government Finance Commission            1.10               6.87            0.36                        -                  8.33                 8.33            2.85               6.87            1.50                        -                11.22               11.22            2.99               8.04            1.73                        -                12.75               12.75 
 614  601-999 Local Governments                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL PUBLIC SECTOR TRANSFORMATION        101.37             90.50            8.55                        -              200.41             200.41        121.04           124.54          14.54                        -              260.12             260.12        127.10           145.72          16.72                        -              289.53             289.53 

 REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 003  Office of the Prime Minister            0.35             28.71                -                          -                29.06               29.06            0.51             43.86                -                          -                44.37               44.37            0.53             51.32                -                    67.06              51.85             118.91 
 011  Ministry of Local Government            0.05               5.42            4.44                181.32                9.90             191.22          30.54             19.11            6.23                114.14              55.87             170.01          32.06             22.36            7.16                  33.98              61.58               95.56 
 108  National Planning Authority                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.12                -                          -                  0.12                 0.12 
 138  Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 147  Local Government Finance Commission                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 2.11                -                          -                  2.11                 2.11                -                 2.47                -                          -                  2.47                 2.47 
 010  Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries                -                 0.30                -                          -                  0.30                 0.30                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 015  Ministry of  Trade, Industry and Co-Operatives                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.12                -                          -                  0.12                 0.12 
 016  Ministry of Works, and Communications                -                 0.40                -                          -                  0.40                 0.40                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 017  Ministry of Energy and Minerals                -                 0.15                -                          -                  0.15                 0.15                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 020  Ministry of Information, and Communications Technology                -                 0.20                -                          -                  0.20                 0.20                -                 0.15                -                          -                  0.15                 0.15                -                 0.18                -                          -                  0.18                 0.18 
 022  Ministry of Tourism, Wildlife and Heritage                -                 0.05                -                          -                  0.05                 0.05                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 142  National Agricultural Research Organization(NARO)                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 617  601-999 Local Governments        457.47           650.33        124.63                        -           1,232.43          1,232.43        446.92           777.20        192.56                        -           1,416.69          1,416.69        469.27           967.59        221.45                        -           1,658.31          1,658.31 

 SUB-TOTAL REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT        457.86           685.95        129.07                181.32         1,272.88          1,454.20        477.96           842.63        198.79                114.14         1,519.38          1,633.52        501.86        1,044.14        228.61                101.04         1,774.61          1,875.65 

 DEVELOPMENT PLAN IMPLEMENTATION 
 001  Office of the President            0.28             21.08                -                          -                21.36               21.36            0.28             22.08                -                          -                22.36               22.36            0.29             25.83                -                          -                26.13               26.13 
 003  Office of the Prime Minister            3.26             50.96            3.47                        -                57.70               57.70            5.95             64.24            5.47                  12.21              75.66               87.87            6.25             75.16            6.29                    6.56              87.70               94.27 
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs                -                 0.33                -                          -                  0.33                 0.33                -                 0.91                -                          -                  0.91                 0.91                -                 1.06                -                          -                  1.06                 1.06 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning & Economic Dev.            8.01           236.94        177.84                    6.65            422.79             429.45          11.03           290.92        176.86                  33.96            478.81             512.77          11.58           340.37        203.65                        -              555.60             555.60 
 011  Ministry of Local Government            0.16               4.77                -                          -                  4.93                 4.93            0.16               9.52                -                          -                  9.68                 9.68            0.16             11.14                -                          -                11.31               11.31 
 023  Ministry of Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs                -                 0.05                -                          -                  0.05                 0.05                -                 0.05                -                          -                  0.05                 0.05                -                 0.06                -                          -                  0.06                 0.06 
 103  Inspectorate of Government (IG)                -                     -              7.06                        -                  7.06                 7.06                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 108  National Planning Authority          15.57             38.54          10.81                        -                64.93               64.93          21.46             27.66          44.92                        -                94.04               94.04          22.54             32.37          51.65                        -              106.56             106.56 
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                 9.49            0.44                        -                  9.92                 9.92                -                 9.49          19.62                        -                29.10               29.10                -               11.10          22.56                        -                33.66               33.66 
 131  OAG                -                 4.00                -                          -                  4.00                 4.00                -                 4.00                -                          -                  4.00                 4.00                -                 4.68                -                          -                  4.68                 4.68 
 141  URA        299.36           375.83          57.37                        -              732.55             732.55        400.26           412.25          64.79                        -              877.30             877.30        420.27           482.33          74.51                        -              977.11             977.11 
 143  Uganda Bureau of Statistics          23.26           122.71          12.36                        -              158.33             158.33          23.26             92.72          18.36                        -              134.35             134.35          24.43           108.49          21.11                        -              154.03             154.03 
 123  National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board            5.10             12.29                -                          -                17.39               17.39            5.10             11.29            1.00                        -                17.39               17.39            5.36             13.21            1.15                        -                19.71               19.71 
 124  Equal Opportunities Commission            5.83             10.89            0.19                        -                16.92               16.92            5.83             11.59            0.79                        -                18.21               18.21            6.12             13.56            0.91                        -                20.60               20.60 
 130  Treasury Operations                -             712.22                -                          -              712.22             712.22                -             877.07                -                          -              877.07             877.07                -          1,026.17                -                          -           1,026.17          1,026.17 
 147  Local Government Finance Commission            0.51               1.27                -                          -                  1.79                 1.79                -                 1.27                -                          -                  1.27                 1.27                -                 1.49                -                          -                  1.49                 1.49 
 149  National Population Council                -                     -              0.10                        -                  0.10                 0.10                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 163  Uganda Retirement Benefits Regulatory Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 005  Ministry of Public Service                -                 1.01                -                          -                  1.01                 1.01                -                 1.01                -                          -                  1.01                 1.01                -                 1.18                -                          -                  1.18                 1.18 
 137  NIRA                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 1.00                -                          -                  1.00                 1.00                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 153  Public Procurement & Disposal of Public Assets (PPDA)                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 1.50                -                          -                  1.50                 1.50                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -               21.07                -                          -                21.07               21.07                -               23.57                -                          -                23.57               23.57                -               23.57                -                          -                23.57               23.57 

 SUB-TOTAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN IMPLEMENTATION        361.35        1,623.45        269.64                    6.65         2,254.44          2,261.10        473.34        1,862.13        331.81                  46.17         2,667.28          2,713.44        497.00        2,171.77        381.83                    6.56         3,050.60          3,057.16 

 ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 
 101  Judiciary        108.82           270.20          63.01                        -              442.04             442.04        109.09           270.04          56.01                        -              435.14             435.14        114.54           315.95          64.41                        -              494.90             494.90 
 148  Judicial Service Commission            4.88             13.16            2.50                        -                20.54               20.54            5.01             12.67            2.50                        -                20.17               20.17            5.26             14.82            2.87                        -                22.95               22.95 
 311  Law Development Centre            0.47               0.88                -                          -                  1.34                 1.34          10.56             26.24            4.05                        -                40.85               40.85          11.09             30.70            4.66                        -                46.45               46.45 
 133  Directorate of Public Prosecution(DPP)            4.23               6.44                -                          -                10.67               10.67          38.81             41.62          18.34                        -                98.77               98.77          40.75             48.70          21.09                        -              110.53             110.53 
 018  Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development                -                 4.70                -                          -                  4.70                 4.70                -                 4.40                -                          -                  4.40                 4.40                -                 5.15                -                          -                  5.15                 5.15 
 144  Uganda Police Force                -                 1.00                -                          -                  1.00                 1.00                -                 0.70                -                          -                  0.70                 0.70                -                 0.82                -                          -                  0.82                 0.82 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning & Economic Dev.                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.12                -                          -                  0.12                 0.12 
 009  Ministry of Internal Affairs                 -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 1.18                -                          -                  1.18                 1.18                -                 1.38                -                          -                  1.38                 1.38 
 135  Directorate of Government Analytical Laboratory                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.12                -                          -                  0.12                 0.12 
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10                -                 0.12                -                          -                  0.12                 0.12 
 011  Ministry of Local Government                 -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                 0.20                -                          -                  0.20                 0.20                -                 0.23                -                          -                  0.23                 0.23 
 145  Uganda Prisons Service                -                     -              1.00                        -                  1.00                 1.00                -                     -              1.00                        -                  1.00                 1.00                -                     -              1.15                        -                  1.15                 1.15 

 SUB-TOTAL ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE        118.41           296.48          66.51                        -              481.39             481.39        163.47           357.35          81.89                        -              602.71             602.71        171.64           418.10          94.18                        -              683.92             683.92 

 LEGISLATION, OVERSIGHT & REPRESENTATION 
 104  Parliamentary Commission        117.05           812.53          48.21                        -              977.79             977.79        119.79           864.50          45.18                        -           1,029.47          1,029.47        125.78        1,011.46          51.96                        -           1,189.20          1,189.20 
 007  Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs                -                 0.32                -                          -                  0.32                 0.32                -                 0.32                -                          -                  0.32                 0.32                -                 0.37                -                          -                  0.37                 0.37 
 105  Law Reform Commission               0.30                -                  0.30                 0.30                -                 0.30                -                          -                  0.30                 0.30 
 011  Ministry of Local Government                -                 0.17                -                          -                  0.17                 0.17                -                 0.17                -                          -                  0.17                 0.17                -                 0.20                -                          -                  0.20                 0.20 

 SUB-TOTAL LEGISLATION, OVERSIGHT & REPRESENT       117.05           813.31          48.21                        -              978.57             978.57        119.79           865.28          45.18                        -           1,030.26          1,030.26        125.78        1,012.03          51.96                        -           1,189.77          1,189.77 
 INTEREST PAYMENTS DUE 

 Domestic Interest                -          7,992.55                -                          -           7,992.55          7,992.55                -          9,478.71                -                          -           9,478.71          9,478.71                -        12,667.59                -                          -         12,667.59        12,667.59 
 External Interest                -          1,613.45                -                          -           1,613.45          1,613.45                -          1,854.03                -                          -           1,854.03          1,854.03                -          2,384.24                -                          -           2,384.24          2,384.24 
 SUB-TOTAL INTEREST PAYMENTS                -          9,606.00                -                          -           9,606.00          9,606.00                -        11,332.73                -                          -         11,332.73        11,332.73                -        15,051.83                -                          -         15,051.83        15,051.83 

                   -                       -                      -                       -                      -                       -   

5 of 11



43

ANNEX 3: MEDIUM TERM EXPENDITURE FRAMEWORK (MTEF) 2024/25 - 2029/30 (Excl. Arrears, External Debt Repayments, Debt Re-financing and AIA) Ushs.Bn.

                                                                                       FY 2027/28 Budget Estimates  FY 2028/29 Budget Estimates  FY 2029/30 Budget Estimates 
 Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl. 

 PROGRAMME/VOTE  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External 
 Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing 

 AGRO- INDUSTRIALISATION 
 010  Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry & Fisheries          40.72           409.35        178.09                486.85            628.16          1,115.01          42.75           491.22        213.71                206.30            747.68             953.98          44.89           589.47        256.45                        -              890.81             890.81 
 011  Ministry of Local Government            0.13               0.28                -                          -                  0.41                 0.41            0.14               0.34                -                          -                  0.48                 0.48            0.15               0.41                -                          -                  0.55                 0.55 
 015  Trade, Industry and Cooperatives                -                 2.45                -                          -                  2.45                 2.45                -                 2.94                -                          -                  2.94                 2.94                -                 3.53                -                          -                  3.53                 3.53 
 019  Ministry of Water and Environment            1.76                   -            77.89                  78.53              79.65             158.18            1.85                   -            93.46                        -                95.32               95.32            1.94                   -          112.16                        -              114.10             114.10 
 021  East African Community                -                 0.26                -                          -                  0.26                 0.26                -                 0.31                -                          -                  0.31                 0.31                -                 0.37                -                          -                  0.37                 0.37 
 108  National Planning Authority                -                 0.82                -                          -                  0.82                 0.82                -                 0.98                -                          -                  0.98                 0.98                -                 1.18                -                          -                  1.18                 1.18 
 121  Dairy Development Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                 0.36                -                          -                  0.36                 0.36                -                 0.44                -                          -                  0.44                 0.44                -                 0.52                -                          -                  0.52                 0.52 
 125  National Animal Genetic Res. Centre and Data Bank            6.32               7.07          82.84                        -                96.24               96.24            6.64               8.48          99.41                        -              114.54             114.54            6.97             10.18        119.30                        -              136.45             136.45 
 150  National Environment Management Authority                -                 0.94            1.14                        -                  2.08                 2.08                -                 1.13            1.37                        -                  2.50                 2.50                -                 1.36            1.64                        -                  3.00                 3.00 
 142  National Agricultural Research Organisation          47.92             49.86        127.13                        -              224.91             224.91          50.31             59.84        152.56                        -              262.71             262.71          52.83             71.80        183.07                        -              307.70             307.70 
 152  NAADS Secretariat                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 154  Uganda National Bureau of Standards                -                 0.97                -                          -                  0.97                 0.97                -                 1.16                -                          -                  1.16                 1.16                -                 1.40                -                          -                  1.40                 1.40 
 155  Uganda Cotton Development Organisation                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 160  Uganda Coffee Development Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 161  Uganda Free Zones Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau                -                 0.13                -                          -                  0.13                 0.13                -                 0.16                -                          -                  0.16                 0.16                -                 0.19                -                          -                  0.19                 0.19 
 138  Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)                -                 0.27                -                          -                  0.27                 0.27                -                 0.32                -                          -                  0.32                 0.32                -                 0.39                -                          -                  0.39                 0.39 
 168  Uganda Freezones and Export Promotion Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                 8.13                -                          -                  8.13                 8.13                -                     -                  -                          -                  8.13                 8.13                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 601  601-999 Local Governments        185.20             92.56          51.13                        -              328.89             328.89        194.47           111.08          61.35                        -              366.89             366.89        204.19           133.29          73.62                        -              411.10             411.10 

 SUB-TOTAL AGRO- INDUSTRIALISATION        282.06           573.46        518.22                565.38         1,373.74          1,939.12        296.16           678.40        621.86                206.30         1,604.56          1,810.85        310.97           814.08        746.24                        -           1,871.29          1,871.29 

 MINERAL DEVELOPMENT 
 017  Energy and Minerals                 -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 108  National Planning Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 138  Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 161  Uganda Free Zones Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUSTAINABLE EXTRACTIVES INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning & Economic Dev.                -                 2.02                -                          -                  2.02                 2.02                -                 2.42                -                          -                  2.42                 2.42                -                 2.91                -                          -                  2.91                 2.91 
 013  Ministry of Education and Sports                -                 1.35                -                          -                  1.35                 1.35                -                 1.61                -                          -                  1.61                 1.61                -                 1.94                -                          -                  1.94                 1.94 
 017  Energy and Minerals           10.14             71.81          72.05                704.81            154.01             858.81          10.65             86.17          86.46                        -              183.28             183.28          11.18           103.41        103.76                        -              218.34             218.34 
 139  Petroleum Authority of Uganda          31.66             40.94          39.93                        -              112.54             112.54          33.24             49.13          47.92                        -              130.30             130.30          34.91             58.96          57.51                        -              151.37             151.37 
 144  Uganda Police Force                -                 2.69                -                          -                  2.69                 2.69                -                 3.23                -                          -                  3.23                 3.23                -                 3.88                -                          -                  3.88                 3.88 
 154  Uganda National Bureau of Standards (UNBS)                -                 3.50                -                          -                  3.50                 3.50                -                 4.20                -                          -                  4.20                 4.20                -                 5.04                -                          -                  5.04                 5.04 
 150  National Environment Management Authority (NEMA)                -                 3.09            0.00                        -                  3.09                 3.09                -                 3.71            0.00                        -                  3.71                 3.71                -                 4.46            0.00                        -                  4.46                 4.46 
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs                 -                 2.58                -                          -                  2.58                 2.58                -                 3.10                -                          -                  3.10                 3.10                -                 3.72                -                          -                  3.72                 3.72 
 007  Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                 0.36                -                          -                  0.36                 0.36                -                     -                  -                          -                  0.36                 0.36                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL SUSTAINABLE EXTRACTIVES INDUSTRY D        41.80           128.34        111.99                704.81            282.13             986.94          43.89           153.58        134.38                        -              332.22             332.22          46.09           184.30        161.26                        -              391.65             391.65 

 TOURISM DEVELOPMENT 
 022  Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities            3.98           394.98          59.49                        -              458.45             458.45            4.18           473.98          71.39                        -              549.55             549.55            4.39           568.78          85.66                        -              658.83             658.83 
 117  Uganda Tourism Board            5.25             69.33            0.05                        -                74.64               74.64            5.51             83.20            0.07                        -                88.78               88.78            5.79             99.84            0.08                        -              105.70             105.70 
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                 0.81                -                          -                  0.81                 0.81                -                 0.97                -                          -                  0.97                 0.97                -                 1.16                -                          -                  1.16                 1.16 
 020  Ministry of ICT and National Guidance                -                 0.54                -                          -                  0.54                 0.54                -                 0.65                -                          -                  0.65                 0.65                -                 0.78                -                          -                  0.78                 0.78 
 605  601-999 Local Governments                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -               26.59                -                          -                26.59               26.59                -                 3.71                -                          -                26.59               26.59                -                 4.46                -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL TOURISM DEVELOPMENT            9.23           492.25          59.54                        -              561.02             561.02            9.69           562.51          71.45                        -              666.53             666.53          10.18           675.01          85.74                        -              766.47             766.47 

 CLIMATE CHANGE, NATURAL RESOURCE, ENVIRONMENT AND WATER MANAGEMENT 
 003  Office of the Prime Minister            0.45             27.31                -                          -                27.76               27.76            0.47             32.77                -                          -                33.24               33.24            0.50             39.32                -                          -                39.82               39.82 
 011  Ministry of Local Government                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 012  Ministry of Lands, Housing & Urban Development                -                 0.13            3.80                        -                  3.93                 3.93                -                 0.16            4.55                        -                  4.72                 4.72                -                 0.19            5.46                        -                  5.66                 5.66 
 019  Ministry of Water and Environment          20.23             43.70          91.63                366.11            155.56             521.67          21.24             52.44        109.95                167.49            183.64             351.13          22.30             62.93        131.95                        -              217.18             217.18 
 108  National Planning Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -               24.16                -                          -                24.16               24.16                -               28.99                -                          -                28.99               28.99                -               34.79                -                          -                34.79               34.79 
 150  National Environment Management Authority          15.34             22.25            9.15                        -                46.74               46.74          16.11             26.70          10.98                        -                53.79               53.79          16.92             32.04          13.17                        -                62.13               62.13 
 156  Uganda Land Commission                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 157  National Forestry Authority          10.67             22.20            5.23                  23.32              38.10               61.42          11.21             26.64            6.27                  23.13              44.12               67.24          11.77             31.96            7.53                        -                51.26               51.26 
 109  Uganda National Meteorological Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 606  601-999 Local Governments                -               13.89                -                          -                13.89               13.89                -               16.66                -                          -                16.66               16.66                -               20.00                -                          -                20.00               20.00 

 SUB-TOTAL CLIMATE CHANGE, NATURAL RESOURCE         46.70           153.64        109.80                389.43            310.14             699.57          49.03           184.37        131.75                190.62            365.16             555.77          51.48           221.24        158.11                        -              430.83             430.83 

 PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning & Economic Dev.            8.57        1,800.44                -                    42.21         1,809.01          1,851.22          12.88        2,168.52                -                          -           2,181.41          2,181.41          17.61        2,602.23                -                          -           2,619.84          2,619.84 
 015  Ministry of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives            1.27               2.97                -                          -                  4.24                 4.24            1.33               3.57                -                          -                  4.90                 4.90            1.40             13.87                -                          -                15.27               15.27 
 021  East African Community                -                 2.33                -                          -                  2.33                 2.33                -                 2.79                -                          -                  2.79                 2.79                -                 3.35                -                          -                  3.35                 3.35 
 023  Ministry of Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

6 of 11

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



44

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26

ANNEX 3: MEDIUM TERM EXPENDITURE FRAMEWORK (MTEF) 2024/25 - 2029/30 (Excl. Arrears, External Debt Repayments, Debt Re-financing and AIA) Ushs.Bn.

                                                                                       FY 2027/28 Budget Estimates  FY 2028/29 Budget Estimates  FY 2029/30 Budget Estimates 
 Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl. 

 PROGRAMME/VOTE  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External 
 Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing 

 108  National Planning Authority                -                 0.34                -                          -                  0.34                 0.34                -                 0.40                -                          -                  0.40                 0.40                -                 0.48                -                          -                  0.48                 0.48 
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau            4.79               6.90                -                          -                11.70               11.70            5.03               8.28                -                          -                13.32               13.32            5.29               9.94                -                          -                15.23               15.23 
 123  National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 153  PPDA            1.04               2.18                -                          -                  3.22                 3.22            1.09               2.62                -                          -                  3.70                 3.70            1.14               3.14                -                          -                  4.28                 4.28 
 154  Uganda National Bureau of Standards          28.51             90.82          44.97                        -              164.30             164.30          29.93           108.99          53.96                        -              192.88             192.88          31.43           130.78          64.76                        -              226.97             226.97 
 136  Uganda Export Promotion Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 138  Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)            7.53             23.27        275.73                        -              306.54             306.54            7.91             27.93        330.88                        -              366.72             366.72            8.31             33.51        397.05                        -              438.87             438.87 
 140  Capital Markets Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 161  Uganda Free Zones Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 162  Uganda Microfinance Regulatory Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 163  Uganda Retirement Benefits Regulatory Authority            8.63               7.75            0.91                        -                17.28               17.28            9.06               9.30            1.09                        -                19.45               19.45            9.51             11.16            1.31                        -                21.98               21.98 
 500  Missions Abroad                -               12.71                -                          -                12.71               12.71                -                     -                  -                          -                12.71               12.71                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                 0.67                -                          -                  0.67                 0.67                -                 0.81                -                          -                  0.81                 0.81                -                 0.97                -                          -                  0.97                 0.97 
 110  Uganda Industrial Research Institute                -                 0.67                -                    42.21                0.67               42.88                -                 0.81                -                          -                  0.81                 0.81                -                 0.97                -                          -                  0.97                 0.97 
 168  Uganda Freezones and Export Promotion Authority            8.50               8.62            2.98                        -                20.10               20.10            8.92             10.35            3.58                        -                22.85               22.85            9.37             12.42            4.29                        -                26.08               26.08 
 167  Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation                -                 0.67                -                          -                  0.67                 0.67                -                 0.81                -                          -                  0.81                 0.81                -                 0.97                -                          -                  0.97                 0.97 
 607  601-999 Local Governments                -               10.87            1.00                        -                11.87               11.87                -               13.05            1.20                        -                14.25               14.25                -               15.66            1.44                        -                17.10               17.10 

 SUB-TOTAL PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT          68.82        1,971.23        325.59                  84.42         2,365.65          2,450.07          76.16        2,358.22        390.71                        -           2,837.80          2,837.80          84.05        2,839.45        468.86                        -           3,392.36          3,392.36 

 MANUFACTURING 
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs                -                 1.61                -                          -                  1.61                 1.61                -                 1.94                -                          -                  1.94                 1.94                -                 2.33                -                          -                  2.33                 2.33 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 015  Trade, Industry and Cooperatives            3.51           280.10            7.94                        -              291.56             291.56            3.69           336.12            9.53                        -              349.34             349.34            3.87           403.35          11.44                        -              418.66             418.66 
 110  Uganda Industrial Research Institute                -                 0.40                -                          -                  0.40                 0.40                -                 0.48                -                          -                  0.48                 0.48                -                 0.58                -                          -                  0.58                 0.58 
 138  Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)            0.59               0.40                -                    39.27                1.00               40.26            0.62               0.48                -                    94.51                1.11               95.62            0.66               0.58                -                          -                  1.24                 1.24 
 154  Uganda National Bureau of Standards                -                 0.89                -                          -                  0.89                 0.89                -                 1.06                -                          -                  1.06                 1.06                -                 1.27                -                          -                  1.27                 1.27 
 161  Uganda Free Zones Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 108  National Planning Authority                -                 0.13                -                          -                  0.13                 0.13                -                 0.16                -                          -                  0.16                 0.16                -                 0.19                -                          -                  0.19                 0.19 
 136  Uganda Export Promotion Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 007  Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs                -                 0.27                -                          -                  0.27                 0.27                -                 0.32                -                          -                  0.32                 0.32                -                 0.39                -                          -                  0.39                 0.39 
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau                -                 0.27                -                          -                  0.27                 0.27                -                 0.32                -                          -                  0.32                 0.32                -                 0.39                -                          -                  0.39                 0.39 
 168  Uganda Freezones and Export Promotion Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL MANUFACTURING            4.11           284.08            7.94                  39.27            296.13             335.40            4.31           340.90            9.53                  94.51            354.75             449.26            4.53           409.08          11.44                        -              425.05             425.05 

 INTEGRATED TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES 
 016  Works and Transport          58.73           911.64     1,125.16             6,429.02         2,095.52          8,524.55          61.66        1,093.97     1,350.19             5,750.40         2,505.82          8,256.22          64.75        1,312.76     1,620.23                        -           2,997.73          2,997.73 
 023  Ministry of Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 113  Uganda National Roads Authority (UNRA)                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 118  Road Fund                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  KCCA Road Rehabilitation Grant                -                     -          255.53                        -              255.53             255.53                -                     -          306.64                        -              306.64             306.64                -                     -          367.96                        -              367.96             367.96 
 609  601-999 Local Governments                -             236.81          63.40                        -              300.21             300.21                -             284.17          76.08                        -              360.25             360.25                -             341.00          91.30                        -              432.30             432.30 

 SUB-TOTAL INTEGRATED TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTU       58.73        1,148.45     1,444.09             6,429.02         2,651.26          9,080.29          61.66        1,378.14     1,732.91             5,750.40         3,172.70          8,923.10          64.75        1,653.76     2,079.49                        -           3,798.00          3,798.00 

 SUSTAINABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT 
 013  Ministry of Education and Sports                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 017  Energy and Minerals             8.59             78.51        381.44             1,592.67            468.54          2,061.21            9.02             94.21        457.72             2,705.20            560.96          3,266.16            9.47           113.06        549.27                        -              671.80             671.80 
 150  National Environment Management Authority (NEMA)                -                 0.13                -                          -                  0.13                 0.13                -                 0.16                -                          -                  0.16                 0.16                -                 0.19                -                          -                  0.19                 0.19 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development                 -                 4.04                -                          -                  4.04                 4.04                -                 4.84                -                          -                  4.84                 4.84                -                 5.81                -                          -                  5.81                 5.81 
 012  Ministry of Lands, Housing & Urban Development                 -                 0.67                -                          -                  0.67                 0.67                -                 0.81                -                          -                  0.81                 0.81                -                 0.97                -                          -                  0.97                 0.97 
 154  Uganda National Bureau of Standards (UNBS)                -                 1.28                -                          -                  1.28                 1.28                -                 1.53                -                          -                  1.53                 1.53                -                 1.84                -                          -                  1.84                 1.84 
 007  Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs                 -                 0.67                -                          -                  0.67                 0.67                -                 0.81                -                          -                  0.81                 0.81                -                 0.97                -                          -                  0.97                 0.97 
 005  Ministry of Public Service                 -                 0.67                -                          -                  0.67                 0.67                -                 0.81                -                          -                  0.81                 0.81                -                 0.97                -                          -                  0.97                 0.97 
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs                 -                 0.79                -                          -                  0.79                 0.79                -                 0.94                -                          -                  0.94                 0.94                -                 1.13                -                          -                  1.13                 1.13 
 308  Soroti University                -                 4.99                -                          -                  4.99                 4.99                -                 5.99                -                          -                  5.99                 5.99                -                 7.19                -                          -                  7.19                 7.19 
500  Missions Abroad                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL SUSTAINABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT            8.59             91.76        381.44             1,592.67            481.79          2,074.46            9.02           110.11        457.72             2,705.20            576.86          3,282.06            9.47           132.13        549.27                        -              690.87             690.87 

 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION 
 013  Ministry of Education and Sports                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 020  Ministry of ICT and National Guidance          14.47           121.86            0.73                        -              137.06             137.06          15.20           146.24            0.73                        -              162.16             162.16          15.96           175.48            0.87                        -              192.31             192.31 
 111  National Curriculum Development Centre                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 123  National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 126  National Information Technology Authority          11.37             40.45          50.62                329.83            102.44             432.27          11.93             48.55          50.62                        -              111.10             111.10          12.53             58.26          60.75                        -              131.53             131.53 

 SUB-TOTAL  DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION          25.84           162.32          51.35                329.83            239.50             569.33          27.13           194.78          51.35                        -              273.26             273.26          28.49           233.74          61.62                        -              323.84             323.84 

 SUSTAINABLE URBANISATION AND HOUSING 
 011  Ministry of Local Government            1.22               0.67                -                          -                  1.90                 1.90            1.29               0.81                -                          -                  2.09                 2.09            1.35               0.97                -                          -                  2.32                 2.32 
 012  Ministry of Lands, Housing & Urban Development          18.40           133.74          50.06                        -              202.21             202.21          19.32           160.49          60.08                        -              239.89             239.89          20.29           192.59          72.09                        -              284.97             284.97 
 016  Ministry of Works and Transport            1.96               1.61                -                          -                  3.58                 3.58            2.06               1.94                -                          -                  4.00                 4.00            2.16               2.33                -                          -                  4.49                 4.49 
 023  Ministry of Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs                -               18.82          18.98                652.86              37.80             690.66                -               22.59          22.77                524.24              45.36             569.59                -               27.11          27.32                        -                54.43               54.43 
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                 0.67                -                          -                  0.67                 0.67                -                 0.81                -                          -                  0.81                 0.81                -                 0.97                -                          -                  0.97                 0.97 
 161  Uganda Free Zones Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

7 of 11



45

ANNEX 3: MEDIUM TERM EXPENDITURE FRAMEWORK (MTEF) 2024/25 - 2029/30 (Excl. Arrears, External Debt Repayments, Debt Re-financing and AIA) Ushs.Bn.

                                                                                       FY 2027/28 Budget Estimates  FY 2028/29 Budget Estimates  FY 2029/30 Budget Estimates 
 Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl. 

 PROGRAMME/VOTE  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External 
 Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing 

 168  Uganda Freezones and Export Promotion Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 108  National Planning Authority                -                 7.94                -                          -                  7.94                 7.94                -                 9.53                -                          -                  9.53                 9.53                -               11.43                -                          -                11.43               11.43 
 156  Uganda Land Commission                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 610  601-999 Local Governments                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL SUSTAINABLE URBANISATION AND HOUS         21.59           163.46          69.04                652.86            254.09             906.95          22.67           196.16          82.85                524.24            301.67             825.91          23.80           235.39          99.42                        -              358.60             358.60 

 HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT 
 003  Office of the Prime Minister                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau            6.66                   -                  -                          -                  6.66                 6.66            7.00                   -                  -                          -                  7.00                 7.00            7.35                   -                  -                          -                  7.35                 7.35 
 011  Ministry of Local Government                -                 0.02                -                          -                  0.02                 0.02                -                 0.03                -                          -                  0.03                 0.03                -                 0.03                -                          -                  0.03                 0.03 
 013  Ministry of Education and Sports          58.51           664.35        100.45                284.67            823.31          1,107.98          61.44           797.22        120.54                261.20            979.19          1,240.39          64.51           956.66        144.64                        -           1,165.81          1,165.81 
 014  Ministry of Health          25.01           234.67        242.44                  38.24            502.12             540.37          26.27           281.60        290.93                    6.86            598.80             605.65          27.58           337.92        349.12                        -              714.61             714.61 
 018  Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development            6.25           390.74            3.24                  23.56            400.23             423.79            6.56           468.89            3.89                        -              479.34             479.34            6.89           562.67            4.67                        -              574.23             574.23 
 019  Ministry of Water and Environment            4.51               0.60        263.51                        -              268.62             268.62            4.73               0.72        316.21                        -              321.66             321.66            4.97               0.87        379.45                        -              385.29             385.29 
 021  East African Community                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 107  Uganda AIDS Commission            6.75             26.53            0.71                        -                33.98               33.98            7.08             31.84            0.85                        -                39.77               39.77            7.44             38.20            1.02                        -                46.66               46.66 
 108  National Planning Authority                -               13.27                -                          -                13.27               13.27                -               15.92                -                          -                15.92               15.92                -               19.10                -                          -                19.10               19.10 
 305  Busitema University          41.41             32.54          14.43                        -                88.37               88.37          43.48             39.05          17.31                        -                99.84               99.84          45.65             46.86          20.78                        -              113.28             113.28 
 114  Uganda Cancer Institute          28.75             68.12        128.54                  11.78            225.41             237.19          30.19             81.74        154.25                  11.96            266.18             278.14          31.70             98.09        185.09                        -              314.89             314.89 
 115  Uganda Heart Institute          19.91             41.90          10.16                    9.07              71.97               81.04          20.91             50.28          12.19                        -                83.38               83.38          21.95             60.33          14.63                        -                96.91               96.91 
 116  National Medical Stores          22.41        1,051.26            1.81                        -           1,075.48          1,075.48          23.53        1,261.52            2.17                        -           1,287.22          1,287.22          24.70        1,513.82            2.61                        -           1,541.13          1,541.13 
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority          68.43             33.09                -                          -              101.53             101.53          71.86             39.71                -                          -              111.57             111.57          75.45             47.65                -                          -              123.10             123.10 
 124  Equal Opportunities Commission                -                 5.32                -                          -                  5.32                 5.32                -                 6.38                -                          -                  6.38                 6.38                -                 7.66                -                          -                  7.66                 7.66 
 306  Muni University          26.19             15.97            4.75                        -                46.91               46.91          27.50             19.16            5.71                        -                52.36               52.36          28.87             22.99            6.85                        -                58.71               58.71 
 128  Uganda National Examinations Board          18.89           178.70          13.17                        -              210.75             210.75          19.83           214.43          15.80                        -              250.07             250.07          20.82           257.32          18.96                        -              297.10             297.10 
 132  Education Service Commission            3.48             10.43            2.00                        -                15.91               15.91            3.65             12.52            2.40                        -                18.57               18.57            3.83             15.02            2.88                        -                21.74               21.74 
 134  Health Service Commission            3.13             15.28            8.92                        -                27.33               27.33            3.29             18.34          10.70                        -                32.32               32.32            3.45             22.01          12.84                        -                38.29               38.29 
 138  Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 149  National Population Council                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 301  Makerere University        244.32           181.76          29.59                196.33            455.67             651.99        256.54           218.11          35.51                199.39            510.15             709.54        269.36           261.73          42.61                        -              573.70             573.70 
 302  Mbarara University          47.77             31.59          43.95                        -              123.30             123.30          50.16             37.90          52.74                        -              140.80             140.80          52.66             45.48          63.28                        -              161.43             161.43 
 303  Makerere University Business School        101.20             81.54            2.38                        -              185.12             185.12        106.26             97.85            2.86                        -              206.97             206.97        111.58           117.41            3.43                        -              232.42             232.42 
 304  Kyambogo University          74.06           105.89            5.05                        -              185.00             185.00          77.76           127.07            6.06                        -              210.89             210.89          81.65           152.49            7.27                        -              241.40             241.40 
 312  Uganda Management Institute          24.95             28.77                -                          -                53.72               53.72          26.19             34.52                -                          -                60.72               60.72          27.50             41.43                -                          -                68.93               68.93 
 313  Mountains of the Moon University          27.80             21.43            6.52                        -                55.75               55.75          29.19             25.72            7.82                        -                62.73               62.73          30.65             30.87            9.38                        -                70.90               70.90 
 309  Gulu University          50.38             41.59          24.45                        -              116.41             116.41          52.90             49.90          29.33                        -              132.14             132.14          55.55             59.88          35.20                        -              150.63             150.63 
 151  Uganda Blood Transfusion Service (UBTS)          13.62             38.12            5.22                        -                56.96               56.96          14.30             45.74            6.26                        -                66.31               66.31          15.02             54.89            7.52                        -                77.43               77.43 
 401  Mulago Hospital Complex          55.40             86.88          29.40                        -              171.68             171.68          58.17           104.25          35.28                        -              197.70             197.70          61.08           125.10          42.34                        -              228.52             228.52 
 402  Butabika Hospital          10.59             14.77            2.86                        -                28.22               28.22          11.12             17.72            3.43                        -                32.27               32.27          11.67             21.26            4.12                        -                37.06               37.06 
 403  Arua Referral Hospital            9.92               5.90            5.83                        -                21.65               21.65          10.42               7.08            6.99                        -                24.49               24.49          10.94               8.50            8.39                        -                27.83               27.83 
 404  Fort Portal Referral Hospital          10.83               6.14            0.14                        -                17.11               17.11          11.37               7.37            0.16                        -                18.90               18.90          11.94               8.84            0.20                        -                20.98               20.98 
 405  Gulu Referral Hospital          11.41               8.71            0.14                        -                20.26               20.26          11.99             10.45            0.16                        -                22.60               22.60          12.58             12.54            0.20                        -                25.33               25.33 
 406  Hoima Referral Hospital          11.03               5.55            0.14                        -                16.71               16.71          11.58               6.66            0.16                        -                18.40               18.40          12.16               7.99            0.20                        -                20.34               20.34 
 407  Jinja Referral Hospital          14.57             12.08            0.14                        -                26.78               26.78          15.30             14.49            0.16                        -                29.95               29.95          16.06             17.39            0.20                        -                33.65               33.65 
 408  Kabale Referral Hospital            8.25               8.25            0.14                        -                16.64               16.64            8.66               9.90            0.16                        -                18.72               18.72            9.10             11.88            0.20                        -                21.17               21.17 
 409  Masaka Referral Hospital          10.91               6.22            0.14                        -                17.27               17.27          11.46               7.46            0.16                        -                19.08               19.08          12.03               8.96            0.20                        -                21.18               21.18 
 410  Mbale Referral Hospital          13.06             10.68            1.78                        -                25.51               25.51          13.71             12.81            2.14                        -                28.66               28.66          14.39             15.38            2.56                        -                32.33               32.33 
 411  Soroti Referral Hospital            9.31               4.48            0.14                        -                13.92               13.92            9.77               5.37            0.16                        -                15.31               15.31          10.26               6.45            0.20                        -                16.90               16.90 
 412  Lira Referral Hospital          11.05             11.09            0.14                        -                22.28               22.28          11.61             13.31            0.16                        -                25.08               25.08          12.19             15.97            0.20                        -                28.35               28.35 
 413  Mbarara Referral Hospital          12.61             12.39            0.14                        -                25.14               25.14          13.24             14.87            0.16                        -                28.28               28.28          13.91             17.84            0.20                        -                31.94               31.94 
 414  Mubende Referral Hospital          12.25               4.30            0.17                        -                16.73               16.73          12.86               5.17            0.20                        -                18.23               18.23          13.51               6.20            0.25                        -                19.95               19.95 
 415  Moroto Referral Hospital            8.87               5.82            0.14                        -                14.83               14.83            9.31               6.98            0.16                        -                16.46               16.46            9.78               8.38            0.20                        -                18.36               18.36 
 416  Naguru Referral Hospital          11.88               6.56            9.13                        -                27.57               27.57          12.47               7.87          10.95                        -                31.30               31.30          13.10               9.45          13.14                        -                35.69               35.69 
 417  Kiruddu Referral Hospital          12.26             22.73            1.74                        -                36.74               36.74          12.88             27.28            2.09                        -                42.24               42.24          13.52             32.74            2.51                        -                48.76               48.76 
 418  Kawempe Referral Hospital          16.63             15.03            1.02                        -                32.68               32.68          17.46             18.04            1.23                        -                36.73               36.73          18.33             21.65            1.48                        -                41.45               41.45 
 419  Entebbe Regional Referral Hospital          10.05             10.22            1.02                        -                21.29               21.29          10.55             12.26            1.23                        -                24.04               24.04          11.08             14.71            1.48                        -                27.27               27.27 
 420  Mulago Specialized Women and Neonatal Hospital          17.75             22.09            2.58                        -                42.42               42.42          18.64             26.51            3.10                        -                48.25               48.25          19.57             31.81            3.72                        -                55.10               55.10 
 421  Kayunga Referral Hospital            7.53             11.91            0.38                        -                19.82               19.82            7.91             14.29            0.46                        -                22.66               22.66            8.31             17.15            0.55                        -                26.00               26.00 
 422  Yumbe Referral Hospital            8.05               8.33            0.13                        -                16.50               16.50            8.45             10.00            0.15                        -                18.60               18.60            8.87             12.00            0.18                        -                21.05               21.05 
 310  Lira University          31.72             17.34            5.38                        -                54.44               54.44          33.31             20.81            6.45                        -                60.57               60.57          34.98             24.97            7.74                        -                67.69               67.69 
 111  National Curriculum Development Centre          10.63             37.80            0.50                        -                48.94               48.94          11.17             45.36            0.60                        -                57.13               57.13          11.72             54.43            0.72                        -                66.88               66.88 
 127  Uganda Virus Research Institute (UVRI)            4.31               7.32                -                          -                11.62               11.62            4.52               8.78                -                          -                13.30               13.30            4.75             10.53                -                          -                15.28               15.28 
 307  Kabale University          48.18             33.22            2.60                        -                84.01               84.01          50.59             39.87            3.12                        -                93.58               93.58          53.12             47.84            3.75                        -              104.71             104.71 
 308  Soroti University          27.18             20.28          13.90                        -                61.36               61.36          28.53             24.34          16.68                        -                69.55               69.55          29.96             29.21          20.01                        -                79.18               79.18 
 164  National Council for Higher Education            8.59             12.32            0.13                        -                21.04               21.04            9.02             14.79            0.15                        -                23.96               23.96            9.47             17.74            0.18                        -                27.40               27.40 
 165  Uganda Business  and Technical Examination Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 169  Uganda Vocational and Technical Assessment Board          33.08           175.44          22.74                        -              231.26             231.26          46.32           275.32          40.93                        -              362.57             362.57          60.79           330.38          65.49                        -              456.66             456.66 
 166  National Council of Sports            3.32             72.81        564.87                        -              641.01             641.01            3.49             87.38        677.84                        -              768.71             768.71            3.66           104.85        813.41                        -              921.93             921.93 
 500  Missions Abroad                -                 0.34                -                          -                  0.34                 0.34                -                     -                  -                          -                  0.34                 0.34                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 612  601-999 Local Governments     3,239.83           956.92        567.80                        -           4,764.56          4,764.56     3,401.83        1,148.31        681.36                        -           5,231.50          5,231.50     3,571.92        1,377.97        817.64                        -           5,767.52          5,767.52 

 SUB-TOTAL HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT     4,625.45        4,947.39     2,146.60                563.65       11,719.44        12,283.09     4,868.31        6,001.25     2,589.56                479.41       13,459.46        13,938.87     5,123.88        7,201.50     3,123.84                        -         15,449.22        15,449.22 

 INNOVATION, TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSFER 
 002  State House                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs                -                 0.49                -                          -                  0.49                 0.49                -                 0.59                -                          -                  0.59                 0.59                -                 0.71                -                          -                  0.71                 0.71 

8 of 11

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



46

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26

ANNEX 3: MEDIUM TERM EXPENDITURE FRAMEWORK (MTEF) 2024/25 - 2029/30 (Excl. Arrears, External Debt Repayments, Debt Re-financing and AIA) Ushs.Bn.

                                                                                       FY 2027/28 Budget Estimates  FY 2028/29 Budget Estimates  FY 2029/30 Budget Estimates 
 Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl. 

 PROGRAMME/VOTE  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External 
 Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing 

 110  Uganda Industrial Research Institute          11.38             12.26            3.66                        -                27.31               27.31          11.95             14.71            4.39                        -                31.06               31.06          12.55             17.66            5.27                        -                35.48               35.48 
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau            1.08               1.50                -                          -                  2.58                 2.58            1.13               1.80                -                          -                  2.94                 2.94            1.19               2.16                -                          -                  3.35                 3.35 
 167  Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation            4.59           427.75          51.86                        -              484.20             484.20            4.81           513.30          62.24                        -              580.35             580.35            5.06           615.96          74.68                        -              695.70             695.70 
 500  Missions Abroad                -                 0.37                -                          -                  0.37                 0.37                -                     -                  -                          -                  0.37                 0.37                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL INNOVATION, TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME         17.05           442.38          55.52                        -              514.95             514.95          17.90           530.41          66.63                        -              615.31             615.31          18.80           636.49          79.95                        -              735.24             735.24 

 COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION AND MINDSET CHANGE 
 001  Office of the President                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 013  Ministry of Education and Sports                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 018  Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 020  Ministry of ICT and National Guidance                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 112  Directorate of Ethics and Integrity                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 123  National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 124  Equal Opportunities Commission                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 149  National Population Council                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 615  601-999 Local Governments                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION AND MINDSE               -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 GOVERNANCE AND SECURITY 
 001  Office of the President          34.60           376.66          25.46                        -              436.72             436.72          36.33           451.99          30.55                        -              518.87             518.87          38.15           542.39          36.66                        -              617.20             617.20 
 002  State House          41.62           596.21          35.07                        -              672.89             672.89          43.70           715.45          42.08                        -              801.23             801.23          45.88           858.54          50.50                        -              954.92             954.92 
 003  Office of the Prime Minister            0.36               3.04                -                          -                  3.40                 3.40            0.38               3.64                -                          -                  4.02                 4.02            0.40               4.37                -                          -                  4.77                 4.77 
 004  Ministry of Defence     1,534.13        2,215.29     2,049.33                        -           5,798.76          5,798.76     1,610.84        3,024.77     2,459.20                        -           7,094.81          7,094.81     1,691.38        3,629.73     2,951.04                        -           8,272.15          8,272.15 
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs          15.57             35.03            4.49                        -                55.09               55.09          16.34             42.03            5.39                        -                63.77               63.77          17.16           416.87            6.47                        -              440.50             440.50 
 007  Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs          18.27           117.48          21.04                        -              156.79             156.79          19.18           140.97          25.25                        -              185.41             185.41          20.14           169.17          30.30                        -              219.61             219.61 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning & Economic Dev.                -                 4.63                -                          -                  4.63                 4.63                -                 5.55                -                          -                  5.55                 5.55                -                 6.67                -                          -                  6.67                 6.67 
 009  Ministry of Internal Affairs            3.55             62.92            0.87                        -                67.34               67.34            3.73             75.50            1.05                        -                80.28               80.28            3.91             90.60            1.26                        -                95.77               95.77 
 011  Ministry of Local Government            0.31               0.26                -                          -                  0.57                 0.57            0.33               0.31                -                          -                  0.63                 0.63            0.34               0.37                -                          -                  0.71                 0.71 
 018  Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development            0.00                   -                  -                          -                  0.00                 0.00            0.00                   -                  -                          -                  0.00                 0.00            0.00                   -                  -                          -                  0.00                 0.00 
 021  East African Community            1.73             51.00            0.12                        -                52.85               52.85            1.82             61.20            0.14                        -                63.16               63.16            1.91             73.44            0.17                        -                75.52               75.52 
 102  Electoral Commission          42.33           739.01            4.24                        -              785.58             785.58          44.44           886.82            5.08                        -              936.34             936.34          46.66        1,064.18            6.10                        -           1,116.94          1,116.94 
 103  Inspectorate of Government (IG)          26.98             45.65          28.84                        -              101.47             101.47          28.33             54.77          34.61                        -              117.71             117.71          29.75             65.73          41.53                        -              137.00             137.00 
 105  Law Reform Commission            3.77             16.90            0.48                        -                21.14               21.14            3.96             20.28            0.57                        -                24.81               24.81            4.15             24.33            0.69                        -                29.18               29.18 
 106  Uganda Human Rights Commission          12.15             20.43            8.56                        -                41.14               41.14          12.76             24.52          10.27                        -                47.55               47.55          13.40             29.42          12.32                        -                55.14               55.14 
 311  Law Development Centre                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 112  Ethics and Integrity            4.13             13.51            0.08                        -                17.73               17.73            4.34             16.21            0.10                        -                20.65               20.65            4.56             19.46            0.12                        -                24.13               24.13 
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau            7.80             48.33            4.93                        -                61.06               61.06            8.19             57.99            5.92                        -                72.11               72.11            8.60             69.59            7.10                        -                85.30               85.30 
 120  National Citizenship and Immigration Control            7.56           219.58          25.99                        -              253.12             253.12            7.94           263.50          31.18                        -              302.61             302.61            8.33           316.20          37.42                        -              361.95             361.95 
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 123  National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 124  Equal Opportunities Commission                -                 1.64                -                          -                  1.64                 1.64                -                 1.97                -                          -                  1.97                 1.97                -                 2.36                -                          -                  2.36                 2.36 
 129  Financial Intelligence Authority (FIA)          13.65             43.56            1.87                        -                59.08               59.08          14.33             52.28            2.24                        -                68.85               68.85          15.05             62.73            2.69                        -                80.47               80.47 
 130  Treasury Operations                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 131  Auditor General          53.50             80.07            1.98                        -              135.55             135.55          56.17             96.08            2.38                        -              154.63             154.63          58.98           115.30            2.85                        -              177.13             177.13 
 133  Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 144  Uganda Police Force        576.04           550.68        336.83                        -           1,463.55          1,463.55        604.84           660.82        404.19                        -           1,669.85          1,669.85        635.08           792.98        485.03                        -           1,913.10          1,913.10 
 145  Uganda Prisons        164.32           431.65          74.26                        -              670.24             670.24        172.54           517.98          89.12                        -              779.64             779.64        181.16           621.58        106.94                        -              909.68             909.68 
 148  Judicial Service Commission                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 153  PPDA          15.05             14.65            1.64                        -                31.34               31.34          15.80             17.59            1.97                        -                35.35               35.35          16.59             21.10            2.36                        -                40.05               40.05 
 158  Internal Security Organisation (ISO)          90.41           210.92          12.95                        -              314.28             314.28          94.93           253.10          15.55                        -              363.57             363.57          99.67           303.72          18.66                        -              422.05             422.05 
 159  External Security Organisation          29.81           117.72            0.89                        -              148.42             148.42          31.31           141.26            1.07                        -              173.63             173.63          32.87           169.51            1.28                        -              203.66             203.66 
 500  Missions Abroad          41.21           231.25          55.69                        -              328.15             328.15                -                     -                  -                          -              328.15             328.15                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 135  Directorate of Government Analytical Laboratory            4.04             18.65          28.76                        -                51.45               51.45            4.24             22.38          34.51                        -                61.13               61.13            4.46             26.86          41.41                        -                72.72               72.72 
 023  Ministry of Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 137  National Identification and Registration Authority (NIRA)          22.45           296.44          17.58                        -              336.47             336.47          23.57           355.73          21.09                        -              400.39             400.39          24.75           426.87          25.31                        -              476.94             476.94 

 SUB-TOTAL GOVERNANCE AND SECURITY     2,765.34        6,563.13     2,741.95                        -         12,070.42        12,070.42     2,860.33        7,964.69     3,223.51                        -         14,376.68        14,376.68     3,003.34        9,924.05     3,868.22                        -         16,795.61        16,795.61 

 PUBLIC SECTOR TRANSFORMATION 
 005  Ministry of Public Service            7.00             38.44          13.27                        -                58.71               58.71            7.35             40.36          15.93                        -                63.64               63.64            7.72             48.43          19.12                        -                75.26               75.26 
 011  Ministry of Local Government                -               12.36                -                          -                12.36               12.36                -               12.98                -                          -                12.98               12.98                -               15.57                -                          -                15.57               15.57 
 020  Ministry of Information, and Communications Technology                -                 1.53                -                          -                  1.53                 1.53                -                 1.61                -                          -                  1.61                 1.61                -                 1.93                -                          -                  1.93                 1.93 
 021  East African Community                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 023  Ministry of Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 103  Inspectorate of Government (IG)            4.23               7.03                -                          -                11.26               11.26            4.45               7.38                -                          -                11.83               11.83            4.67               8.86                -                          -                13.52               13.52 
 108  National Planning Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 111  National Curriculum Development Centre                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority        114.95             73.40                -                          -              188.35             188.35        120.70             77.07                -                          -              197.76             197.76        126.73             92.48                -                          -              219.21             219.21 
 123  National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 126  National Information Technologies Authority                -                 1.09                -                          -                  1.09                 1.09                -                 1.14                -                          -                  1.14                 1.14                -                 1.37                -                          -                  1.37                 1.37 
 137  National Identification and Registration Authority (NIRA)                -                 0.36                -                          -                  0.36                 0.36                -                 0.38                -                          -                  0.38                 0.38                -                 0.46                -                          -                  0.46                 0.46 
 146  Public Service Commission            4.13             24.12            3.21                        -                31.46               31.46            4.33             25.33            3.86                        -                33.52               33.52            4.55             30.40            4.63                        -                39.57               39.57 

9 of 11



47

ANNEX 3: MEDIUM TERM EXPENDITURE FRAMEWORK (MTEF) 2024/25 - 2029/30 (Excl. Arrears, External Debt Repayments, Debt Re-financing and AIA) Ushs.Bn.

                                                                                       FY 2027/28 Budget Estimates  FY 2028/29 Budget Estimates  FY 2029/30 Budget Estimates 
 Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl.  Total excl.  Total incl. 

 PROGRAMME/VOTE  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External  Wage  Non-Wage  Domestic  External  External  External 
 Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing  Recurrent  Dev  Financing  Financing 

 147  Local Government Finance Commission            3.14               9.24            1.90                        -                14.28               14.28            3.30               9.71            2.28                        -                15.28               15.28            3.46             11.65            2.73                        -                17.84               17.84 
 614  601-999 Local Governments                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL PUBLIC SECTOR TRANSFORMATION        133.45           167.57          18.39                        -              319.41             319.41        140.12           175.95          22.06                        -              338.14             338.14        147.13           211.14          26.48                        -              384.75             384.75 

 REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 003  Office of the Prime Minister            0.56             59.01                -                  272.48              59.57             332.05            0.59             61.96                -                  217.81              62.55             280.36            0.62             74.36                -                          -                74.97               74.97 
 011  Ministry of Local Government          33.67             25.71            7.87                  14.69              67.25               81.94          35.35             27.00            9.45                        -                71.80               71.80          37.12             32.40          11.34                        -                80.85               80.85 
 108  National Planning Authority                -                 0.13                -                          -                  0.13                 0.13                -                 0.14                -                          -                  0.14                 0.14                -                 0.17                -                          -                  0.17                 0.17 
 138  Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 147  Local Government Finance Commission                -                 2.84                -                          -                  2.84                 2.84                -                 2.98                -                          -                  2.98                 2.98                -                 3.58                -                          -                  3.58                 3.58 
 010  Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 015  Ministry of  Trade, Industry and Co-Operatives                -                 0.13                -                          -                  0.13                 0.13                -                 0.14                -                          -                  0.14                 0.14                -                 0.17                -                          -                  0.17                 0.17 
 016  Ministry of Works, and Communications                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 017  Ministry of Energy and Minerals                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 020  Ministry of Information, and Communications Technology                -                 0.20                -                          -                  0.20                 0.20                -                 0.21                -                          -                  0.21                 0.21                -                 0.25                -                          -                  0.25                 0.25 
 022  Ministry of Tourism, Wildlife and Heritage                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 142  National Agricultural Research Organization(NARO)                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 617  601-999 Local Governments        492.73        1,112.73        243.59                        -           1,849.05          1,849.05        517.37        1,168.36        292.31                        -           1,978.04          1,978.04        543.24        1,402.03        350.78                        -           2,296.05          2,296.05 

 SUB-TOTAL REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT        526.96        1,200.76        251.47                287.16         1,979.19          2,266.35        553.30        1,260.80        301.76                217.81         2,115.87          2,333.68        580.97        1,512.96        362.12                        -           2,456.04          2,456.04 

 DEVELOPMENT PLAN IMPLEMENTATION 
 001  Office of the President            0.31             29.71                -                          -                30.02               30.02            0.32             35.65                -                          -                35.98               35.98            0.34             42.78                -                          -                43.12               43.12 
 003  Office of the Prime Minister            6.56             86.44            6.92                272.48              99.92             372.40            6.89           103.72            8.30                217.81            118.92             336.73            7.24           124.47            9.96                        -              141.67             141.67 
 006  Ministry of Foreign Affairs                -                 1.22                -                          -                  1.22                 1.22                -                 1.46                -                          -                  1.46                 1.46                -                 1.76                -                          -                  1.76                 1.76 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning & Economic Dev.          12.16           391.43        224.01                157.06            627.60             784.66          12.77           469.71        269.15                199.39            751.62             951.01          13.41           563.65        323.38                        -              900.44             900.44 
 011  Ministry of Local Government            0.17             12.81                -                          -                12.99               12.99            0.18             15.38                -                          -                15.56               15.56            0.19             18.45                -                          -                18.64               18.64 
 023  Ministry of Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs                -                 0.07                -                          -                  0.07                 0.07                -                 0.08                -                          -                  0.08                 0.08                -                 0.10                -                          -                  0.10                 0.10 
 103  Inspectorate of Government (IG)                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 108  National Planning Authority          23.66             37.22          56.82                        -              117.70             117.70          24.85             44.66          68.18                        -              137.70             137.70          26.09             53.60          81.82                        -              161.51             161.51 
 119  Uganda Registration Services Bureau                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -               12.76          24.82                        -                37.58               37.58                -               15.32          29.78                        -                45.10               45.10                -               18.38          35.74                        -                54.12               54.12 
 131  OAG                -                 5.38                -                          -                  5.38                 5.38                -                 6.46                -                          -                  6.46                 6.46                -                 7.75                -                          -                  7.75                 7.75 
 141  URA        441.28           554.68          81.96                        -           1,077.92          1,077.92        463.35           665.62          98.35                        -           1,227.32          1,227.32        486.52           798.74        118.02                        -           1,403.28          1,403.28 
 143  Uganda Bureau of Statistics          25.65           124.76          23.23                        -              173.63             173.63          26.93           149.71          27.87                        -              204.51             204.51          28.28           179.65          33.44                        -              241.38             241.38 
 123  National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board            5.62             15.19            1.27                        -                22.08               22.08            5.90             18.23            1.52                        -                25.65               25.65            6.20             21.87            1.82                        -                29.90               29.90 
 124  Equal Opportunities Commission            6.43             15.60            1.00                        -                23.03               23.03            6.75             18.72            1.20                        -                26.67               26.67            7.09             22.46            1.44                        -                30.99               30.99 
 130  Treasury Operations                -          1,180.09                -                          -           1,180.09          1,180.09                -          1,416.11                -                          -           1,416.11          1,416.11                -          1,699.34                -                          -           1,699.34          1,699.34 
 147  Local Government Finance Commission                -                 1.71                -                          -                  1.71                 1.71                -                 2.05                -                          -                  2.05                 2.05                -                 2.46                -                          -                  2.46                 2.46 
 149  National Population Council                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 163  Uganda Retirement Benefits Regulatory Authority                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 005  Ministry of Public Service                -                 1.36                -                          -                  1.36                 1.36                -                 1.63                -                          -                  1.63                 1.63                -                 1.96                -                          -                  1.96                 1.96 
 137  NIRA                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 153  Public Procurement & Disposal of Public Assets (PPDA)                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -                  -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   
 500  Missions Abroad                -               23.57                -                          -                23.57               23.57                -                     -                  -                          -                23.57               23.57                -                     -                  -                          -                      -                       -   

 SUB-TOTAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN IMPLEMENTATION        521.85        2,494.00        420.01                429.54         3,435.86          3,865.40        547.95        2,964.52        504.35                417.20         4,040.38          4,457.58        575.34        3,557.42        605.62                        -           4,738.38          4,738.38 

 ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 
 101  Judiciary        120.27           363.34          70.85                        -              554.46             554.46        126.28           436.01          85.02                        -              647.32             647.32        132.60           523.22        102.03                        -              757.84             757.84 
 148  Judicial Service Commission            5.52             17.04            3.16                        -                25.72               25.72            5.80             20.45            3.79                        -                30.04               30.04            6.09             24.54            4.55                        -                35.18               35.18 
 311  Law Development Centre          11.65             35.30            5.12                        -                52.07               52.07          12.23             42.37            6.15                        -                60.74               60.74          12.84             50.84            7.38                        -                71.06               71.06 
 133  Directorate of Public Prosecution(DPP)          42.79             56.00          23.20                        -              121.99             121.99          44.93             67.20          27.84                        -              139.96             139.96          47.17             80.64          33.40                        -              161.22             161.22 
 018  Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development                -                 5.92                -                          -                  5.92                 5.92                -                 7.10                -                          -                  7.10                 7.10                -                 8.53                -                          -                  8.53                 8.53 
 144  Uganda Police Force                -                 0.94                -                          -                  0.94                 0.94                -                 1.13                -                          -                  1.13                 1.13                -                 1.36                -                          -                  1.36                 1.36 
 008  Ministry of Finance, Planning & Economic Dev.                -                 0.13                -                          -                  0.13                 0.13                -                 0.16                -                          -                  0.16                 0.16                -                 0.19                -                          -                  0.19                 0.19 
 009  Ministry of Internal Affairs                 -                 1.59                -                          -                  1.59                 1.59                -                 1.91                -                          -                  1.91                 1.91                -                 2.29                -                          -                  2.29                 2.29 
 135  Directorate of Government Analytical Laboratory                -                 0.13                -                          -                  0.13                 0.13                -                 0.16                -                          -                  0.16                 0.16                -                 0.19                -                          -                  0.19                 0.19 
 122  Kampala Capital City Authority                -                 0.13                -                          -                  0.13                 0.13                -                 0.16                -                          -                  0.16                 0.16                -                 0.19                -                          -                  0.19                 0.19 
 011  Ministry of Local Government                 -                 0.27                -                          -                  0.27                 0.27                -                 0.32                -                          -                  0.32                 0.32                -                 0.39                -                          -                  0.39                 0.39 
 145  Uganda Prisons Service                -                     -              1.27                        -                  1.27                 1.27                -                     -              1.52                        -                  1.52                 1.52                -                     -              1.82                        -                  1.82                 1.82 

 SUB-TOTAL ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE        180.22           480.82        103.59                        -              764.63             764.63        189.23           576.98        124.31                        -              890.53             890.53        198.70           692.38        149.18                        -           1,040.25          1,040.25 

 LEGISLATION, OVERSIGHT & REPRESENTATION 
 104  Parliamentary Commission        132.07        1,163.18          57.16                        -           1,352.41          1,352.41        138.68        1,395.82          68.59                        -           1,603.08          1,603.08        145.61        1,674.98          82.30                        -           1,902.89          1,902.89 
 007  Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs                -                 0.43                -                          -                  0.43                 0.43                -                 0.51                -                          -                  0.51                 0.51                -                 0.61                -                          -                  0.61                 0.61 
 105  Law Reform Commission                -                 0.57                -                          -   
 011  Ministry of Local Government                -                 0.23                -                          -                  0.23                 0.23                -                 0.28                -                          -                  0.28                 0.28                -                 0.33                -                          -                  0.33                 0.33 

 SUB-TOTAL LEGISLATION, OVERSIGHT & REPRESENT       132.07        1,163.84          57.16                        -           1,353.06          1,353.06        138.68        1,396.60          68.59                        -           1,603.87          1,603.87        145.61        1,676.50          82.30                        -           1,903.84          1,903.84 
 INTEREST PAYMENTS DUE 

 Domestic Interest                -        14,567.72                -                          -         14,567.72        14,567.72                -        18,127.15                -                          -         18,127.15        18,127.15                -        21,752.58                -                          -         21,752.58        21,752.58 
 External Interest                -          2,741.87                -                          -           2,741.87          2,741.87                -          3,401.28                -                          -           3,401.28          3,401.28                -          4,081.53                -                          -           4,081.53          4,081.53 
 SUB-TOTAL INTEREST PAYMENTS                -        17,309.60                -                          -         17,309.60        17,309.60                -        21,528.43                -                          -         21,528.43        21,528.43                -        25,834.11                -                          -         25,834.11        25,834.11 

                   -                       -                      -                       -                      -                       -   

10 of 11

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



48

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26

ANNEX 4 - PROGRAMME ALLOCATIONS FY 2025/26  GoU  External  Total %
 Human Capital Development            9,004.33          2,436.28      11,440.61 26.1%
 Governance & Security            9,643.68             255.98        9,899.66 22.6%
 Integrated Transport Infrastructure & Services            2,048.38          4,335.21        6,383.60 14.6%
 Development Plan Implementation            2,667.28               46.17        2,713.44 6.2%
 Private Sector Dev't            2,336.86             368.06        2,704.92 6.2%
 Agro-Industrialisation            1,062.83             795.25        1,858.09 4.2%
 Regional Dev't            1,519.38             114.14        1,633.52 3.7%
 Sustainable Urbanisation & Housing               240.59          1,251.24        1,491.83 3.4%
 Sustainable Energy Dev't               374.34             660.55        1,034.88 2.4%
 Legislation, Oversight & Representation            1,030.26                    -          1,030.26 2.4%
Sustainable Extractives Industry Development               222.42             653.39           875.81 2.0%
 Administration of Justice               602.71                    -             602.71 1.4%
 Tourism Dev't               430.02                    -             430.02 1.0%
 Innovation, Technology Dev't & Transfer               388.23                    -             388.23 0.9%
 Digital Transformation               184.67             197.08           381.75 0.9%
 Climate Change, Natural Resource, Environment & Water Management               243.34             122.76           366.10 0.8%
 Manufacturing               221.14               90.97           312.11 0.7%
 Public Sector Transformation               260.12                    -             260.12 0.6%
 SUB TOTAL        32,480.60       11,327.07     43,807.67 

 ** Memo Items 
 Domestic Refinancing      10,027.84 
 Interest Payments       11,332.73 
 External Debt Repayments (Amortization)        4,985.79 
 Domestic Arrears        1,400.78 
 Domestic Debt Payment (BoU)           493.00 
 Appropriation in Aid/Local Revenue           328.67 
 GRAND TOTAL     72,376.48 



49

Annex 4: Approved Local Government Indicative Planning Figures 
Vote Code Local Government Total Total Total

for FY 2025/26
Total Wage Grants Total Non-Wage Total Development  Local Revenue  Local Revenue Total Local 

Recurrent Grants Grants NWR Development Revenue TOTAL APPROPRIATION

601 Arua city 28,797,842,304 13,214,579,292 2,398,841,550        5,700,000,000      1,500,000,000        7,200,000,000             51,611,263,145.73
602 Fort-Portal city 16,886,949,378 8,502,017,698 2,188,332,008        2,567,368,050         600,000,000        3,167,368,050             30,744,667,133.35
603 Gulu city 18,730,645,263 10,042,607,021 2,034,411,481        5,766,168,890      1,285,500,000        7,051,668,890             37,859,332,655.12
604 Hoima city 9,095,713,597 6,543,306,060 1,601,058,658        2,768,073,000      1,609,878,000        4,377,951,000             21,618,029,315.05
605 Jinja city 31,378,691,532 12,478,992,559 3,137,493,188      12,045,638,300      3,748,130,700      15,793,769,000             62,788,946,278.67
606 Lira city 20,949,243,210 10,713,036,793 2,342,673,350        5,500,000,000      1,000,000,000        6,500,000,000             40,504,953,352.99
607 Masaka city 20,789,868,818 13,719,057,054 5,346,595,150        5,096,698,861      1,274,174,716        6,370,873,577             46,226,394,599.46
608 Mbale city 27,778,844,665 12,832,331,162 1,654,843,037        4,309,724,000      2,257,428,000        6,567,152,000             48,833,170,863.52
609 Mbarara city 25,619,991,523 11,428,254,859 1,544,990,626        8,124,531,500      4,441,207,656      12,565,739,156             51,158,976,163.79
610 Soroti city 15,668,020,973 7,150,030,018 1,602,253,132        2,600,000,000         600,000,000        3,200,000,000             27,620,304,123.41
701 Apac Municipal Council 6,275,652,216 3,702,478,863 1,234,490,958           278,450,000           76,550,000           355,000,000             11,567,622,037.63
702 Bugiri Municipal Council 3,760,135,476 3,144,911,052 753,431,717           600,000,000         100,000,000           700,000,000               8,358,478,245.88
703 Bushenyi- Ishaka Municipal Council 9,612,695,667 5,829,836,480 975,152,055        1,162,215,699         339,890,796        1,502,106,495             17,919,790,697.47
704 Busia Municipal Council 4,797,671,458 3,348,378,375 874,103,660        1,319,880,000         280,000,000        1,599,880,000             10,620,033,493.05
705 Entebbe Municipal Council 7,267,459,842 4,887,869,785 9,209,574,577        4,845,000,000         855,000,000        5,700,000,000             27,064,904,204.51
706 Ibanda Municipal Council 12,022,907,965 7,549,174,936 1,021,843,100        1,191,749,943         210,308,813        1,402,058,756             21,995,984,757.29
707 Iganga Municipal Council 5,148,742,136 2,611,959,083 347,831,276        1,170,000,000         150,000,000        1,320,000,000               9,428,532,495.37
708 Kabale Municipal Council 12,378,138,048 5,509,013,648 1,922,472,016        2,879,434,800         490,833,609        3,370,268,409             23,179,892,120.79
709 Kamuli Municipal Council 5,653,882,616 3,562,045,101 1,118,152,145           700,000,000         390,000,000        1,090,000,000             11,424,079,862.15
710 Kapchorwa Municipal Council 7,783,200,307 4,376,657,996 1,140,129,074           300,000,000                              -           300,000,000             13,599,987,376.90
711 Kasese Municipal Council 11,161,654,312 6,846,564,792 772,148,096        1,868,662,153         151,513,147        2,020,175,300             20,800,542,500.24
712 Kira Municipal Council 9,525,773,921 5,569,856,622 7,668,523,301      12,709,393,000         500,000,000      13,209,393,000             35,973,546,843.89
713 Kisoro Municipal Council 3,056,345,112 2,053,168,395 1,162,845,829           804,720,000           70,000,000           874,720,000               7,147,079,336.40
714 Kitgum Municipal Council 4,966,087,116 3,506,285,711 940,554,582        1,028,453,359         100,000,000        1,128,453,359             10,541,380,768.19
715 Koboko Municipal Council 6,398,580,786 3,254,090,823 1,249,878,821        1,025,845,500         100,000,000        1,125,845,500             12,028,395,930.03
716 Kotido Municipal Council 4,965,649,440 3,245,290,748 596,380,419           387,789,000                              -           387,789,000               9,195,109,606.62
717 Kumi Municipal Council 7,129,902,503 3,749,854,057 1,039,786,079           584,915,785           20,000,000           604,915,785             12,524,458,424.61
718 Lugazi Municipal Council 5,065,731,338 3,869,986,342 925,922,666        1,703,456,761         150,000,000        1,853,456,761             11,715,097,106.28
719 Makindye-Ssabagabo Municipal Council 6,161,269,897 5,709,564,667 12,639,553,047        5,450,000,000      3,000,000,000        8,450,000,000             32,960,387,611.62
720 Masindi Municipal Council 7,709,941,744 5,253,271,211 1,698,405,962        1,444,508,732         150,000,000        1,594,508,732             16,256,127,648.98
721 Mityana Municipal Council 8,357,871,783 7,263,435,186 1,254,834,850           944,144,610         585,463,830        1,529,608,440             18,405,750,259.60
722 Moroto Municipal Council 4,054,417,516 3,647,917,626 318,386,366           630,480,000         150,000,000           780,480,000               8,801,201,508.38
723 Mubende Municipal Council 7,282,084,140 5,135,724,696 1,676,185,122        2,005,616,029         313,885,053        2,319,501,082             16,413,495,040.03
724 Mukono Municipal Council 13,863,737,410 6,199,659,240 8,363,124,926        6,708,775,000      2,101,429,000        8,810,204,000             37,236,725,575.19
725 Nansana Municipal Council 13,924,822,994 8,528,332,428 6,178,521,534        7,765,621,799      3,575,381,174      11,341,002,973             39,972,679,929.25
726 Nebbi Municipal Council 3,509,859,492 2,423,815,400 410,063,048           703,682,930           50,000,000           753,682,930               7,097,420,870.31
727 Njeru Municipal Council 7,729,729,584 4,963,138,919 1,516,438,782        3,666,103,881                              -        3,666,103,881             17,875,411,166.15
728 Ntungamo Municipal Council 3,751,676,132 2,318,358,937 600,582,635           863,713,250           83,522,397           947,235,647               7,617,853,350.97
729 Rukungiri Municipal Council 9,151,964,775 3,525,958,008 1,303,149,753        1,233,778,999         100,000,000        1,333,778,999             15,314,851,534.74

Page 1 of 5

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



50

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26

Annex 4: Approved Local Government Indicative Planning Figures 
Vote Code Local Government Total Total Total

for FY 2025/26
Total Wage Grants Total Non-Wage Total Development  Local Revenue  Local Revenue Total Local 

Recurrent Grants Grants NWR Development Revenue TOTAL APPROPRIATION

730 Sheema Municipal Council 12,086,007,536 4,996,221,568 1,821,913,735           679,800,000           81,200,000           761,000,000             19,665,142,838.67
731 Tororo Municipal Council 7,984,130,954 4,224,467,809 364,682,793        1,639,250,000         362,000,000        2,001,250,000             14,574,531,556.61
801 Abim District 18,825,482,788 7,336,824,089 2,288,327,000           252,472,604           62,551,736           315,024,340             28,765,658,216.74
802 Adjumani District 28,087,749,010 11,329,106,062 2,497,052,236        2,232,672,750         404,885,625        2,637,558,375             44,551,465,683.55
803 Agago District 24,904,880,582 10,676,328,086 4,981,826,005           197,100,000         167,900,000           365,000,000             40,928,034,673.37
804 Alebtong District 17,712,068,956 11,037,165,287 3,135,845,798           665,349,663         169,650,337           835,000,000             32,720,080,040.31
805 Amolatar District 16,941,001,656 9,511,591,500 2,852,941,320           510,000,000         100,000,000           610,000,000             29,915,534,476.52
806 Amudat District 8,792,180,721 4,206,989,165 2,426,739,177           261,450,000         105,000,000           366,450,000             15,792,359,063.34
807 Amuria District 20,061,601,291 13,124,953,658 4,086,955,565           559,120,000           45,000,000           604,120,000             37,877,630,513.49
808 Amuru District 16,099,096,672 7,697,344,784 3,261,950,089           604,867,700                              -           604,867,700             27,663,259,244.68
809 Apac District 20,236,448,158 11,676,003,445 2,633,323,716           530,000,000         242,842,845           772,842,845             35,318,618,163.74
810 Arua District 13,295,800,668 13,288,364,238 2,624,536,841           661,030,000           47,000,000           708,030,000             29,916,731,746.79
811 Budaka District 22,283,431,955 12,117,880,476 3,595,256,586           375,343,000                              -           375,343,000             38,371,912,017.29
812 Bududa District 25,138,486,582 12,932,128,765 4,076,546,084           349,381,287         125,000,000           474,381,287             42,621,542,717.66
813 Bugiri District 27,157,804,730 16,133,870,043 3,762,419,911           728,738,500         180,000,000           908,738,500             47,962,833,183.98
814 Bugweri District 18,042,124,430 8,414,574,909 1,554,437,561           273,136,000                              -           273,136,000             28,284,272,900.36
815 Buhweju District 14,659,762,233 7,546,618,746 3,228,650,518           405,085,215                              -           405,085,215             25,840,116,711.74
816 Buikwe District 20,809,646,223 9,578,089,224 2,085,580,344        1,193,135,082         202,561,918        1,395,697,000             33,869,012,791.19
817 Bukedea District 23,020,583,938 12,946,626,206 6,769,675,900           740,000,000         160,000,000           900,000,000             43,636,886,043.78
818 Bukomansimbi District 14,785,922,508 8,685,018,793 1,537,385,825           450,000,000           50,000,000           500,000,000             25,508,327,126.38
819 Bukwo District 23,323,904,748 7,827,129,337 2,282,345,697           412,432,900                              -           412,432,900             33,845,812,682.00
820 Bulambuli District 20,634,271,774 10,848,828,172 3,967,103,500           248,732,500           10,000,000           258,732,500             35,708,935,946.09
821 Buliisa District 11,803,227,305 5,673,896,499 2,195,495,961        1,404,848,350           76,000,000        1,480,848,350             21,153,468,114.78
822 Bundibugyo District 30,024,571,975 12,851,647,894 5,355,995,208           864,721,444           96,080,161           960,801,605             49,193,016,682.32
823 Bunyangabu District 18,302,782,109 7,025,213,736 3,077,556,157        1,206,948,000         100,000,000        1,306,948,000             29,712,500,002.03
824 Bushenyi District 25,723,535,816 14,338,749,331 2,152,834,411           742,318,275         299,396,619        1,041,714,894             43,256,834,451.57
825 Busia District 29,474,413,739 14,611,924,056 2,402,735,968        5,337,879,590      2,200,000,000        7,537,879,590             54,026,953,352.27
826 Butaleja District 29,981,621,626 13,329,373,382 4,887,682,707           586,000,000         150,000,000           736,000,000             48,934,677,715.08
827 Butambala District 25,250,955,156 8,541,870,604 2,309,772,867           300,000,000         100,000,000           400,000,000             36,502,598,626.84
828 Butebo District 13,482,887,580 8,047,249,776 2,467,114,218           314,000,000           86,000,000           400,000,000             24,397,251,574.02
829 Buvuma District 12,130,831,557 4,567,007,299 2,316,680,095           210,835,000             5,000,000           215,835,000             19,230,353,951.53
830 Buyende District 18,470,263,988 9,822,812,806 3,049,135,179           670,000,000         150,000,000           820,000,000             32,162,211,972.97
831 Dokolo District 18,846,979,542 9,203,963,358 3,603,294,026           511,135,249                              -           511,135,249             32,165,372,174.80
832 Gomba District 16,031,453,430 8,116,562,526 2,039,441,075           550,000,000           70,000,000           620,000,000             26,807,457,031.47
833 Gulu District 18,446,378,117 7,390,015,098 1,860,356,612           963,494,000                              -           963,494,000             28,660,243,827.36
834 Hoima District 17,837,510,414 8,660,675,660 2,373,660,321        1,225,979,049         100,000,000        1,325,979,049             30,197,825,444.40
835 Ibanda District 23,261,817,924 8,440,535,718 2,975,902,489           875,968,800         200,000,000        1,075,968,800             35,754,224,930.89
836 Iganga District 32,982,151,757 17,809,282,514 3,216,074,464           450,000,000           50,000,000           500,000,000             54,507,508,735.11
837 Isingiro District 42,753,489,214 16,526,120,090 5,899,454,601        2,577,560,689         840,000,000        3,417,560,689             68,596,624,594.02

Page 2 of 5



51

Annex 4: Approved Local Government Indicative Planning Figures 
Vote Code Local Government Total Total Total

for FY 2025/26
Total Wage Grants Total Non-Wage Total Development  Local Revenue  Local Revenue Total Local 

Recurrent Grants Grants NWR Development Revenue TOTAL APPROPRIATION

838 Jinja District 29,149,249,394 14,884,399,980 2,976,896,237        1,304,509,000         308,509,000        1,613,018,000             48,623,563,611.10
839 Kaabong District 13,580,280,365 7,412,741,358 2,681,221,316           308,860,711                              -           308,860,711             23,983,103,749.97
840 Kabale District 31,991,946,447 18,690,037,554 4,454,289,896           937,420,000                              -           937,420,000             56,073,693,897.38
841 Kabarole District 16,007,699,600 7,395,047,503 5,365,405,689           805,118,204         153,197,439           958,315,643             29,726,468,434.75
842 Kaberamaido District 15,513,822,779 7,248,483,439 2,427,505,886           348,568,000           65,000,000           413,568,000             25,603,380,104.06
843 Kagadi District 28,394,221,783 12,853,113,263 4,730,012,946        2,159,586,840           95,000,000        2,254,586,840             48,231,934,832.41
844 Kakumiro District 23,468,118,930 9,579,989,189 7,403,407,313           747,670,200         150,000,000           897,670,200             41,349,185,632.01
845 Kalaki District 11,059,998,336 7,317,226,969 2,112,022,611           310,622,302           50,000,000           360,622,302             20,849,870,218.72
846 Kalangala District 12,631,970,011 4,997,613,035 993,025,652           931,482,010         292,386,890        1,223,868,900             19,846,477,598.09
847 Kaliro District 23,525,192,462 11,901,475,677 2,719,934,953           447,475,000         139,415,000           586,890,000             38,733,493,092.15
848 Kalungu District 21,346,602,288 11,465,118,355 1,670,656,580           765,485,000         100,000,000           865,485,000             35,347,862,223.69
849 Kamuli District 39,734,568,089 19,997,620,399 3,898,749,285           800,000,000         200,000,000        1,000,000,000             64,630,937,773.09
850 Kamwenge District 23,028,825,465 11,386,667,905 4,187,335,280           995,986,000         425,014,000        1,421,000,000             40,023,828,649.86
851 Kanungu District 38,279,064,708 14,227,894,176 3,933,383,459        1,344,995,000         250,000,000        1,594,995,000             58,035,337,343.72
852 Kapchorwa District 17,784,716,763 7,605,897,585 1,861,743,253           430,000,000         120,000,000           550,000,000             27,802,357,600.70
853 Kapelebyong District 11,171,601,373 5,727,610,329 2,546,093,169           354,601,665           84,625,968           439,227,633             19,884,532,504.46
854 Karenga District 10,392,858,168 4,326,383,150 1,095,152,044           580,903,878         304,446,289           885,350,167             16,699,743,529.25
855 Kasanda District 22,723,490,736 9,407,070,183 3,310,677,878        1,030,047,916         118,000,000        1,148,047,916             36,589,286,713.36
856 Kasese District 66,398,987,043 26,427,351,950 12,883,844,873        4,602,608,146         720,000,000        5,322,608,146           111,032,792,011.53
857 Katakwi District 30,176,642,289 10,398,920,647 3,197,187,933           936,340,000         173,660,000        1,110,000,000             44,882,750,869.14
858 Kayunga District 34,342,565,772 14,592,312,418 5,617,845,159        1,997,350,000           51,974,000        2,049,324,000             56,602,047,349.13
859 Kazo District 15,265,840,652 6,050,440,850 3,102,275,873        1,120,250,399           50,000,000        1,170,250,399             25,588,807,773.97
860 Kibaale District 16,810,843,082 7,918,791,450 6,579,010,806           644,376,000                              -           644,376,000             31,953,021,337.72
861 Kiboga District 22,479,160,849 7,775,417,283 3,837,044,420        1,185,401,855         123,155,663        1,308,557,518             35,400,180,069.38
862 Kibuku District 19,911,346,083 10,065,735,125 2,873,425,122           281,761,900           96,000,000           377,761,900             33,228,268,229.86
863 Kikuube District 17,237,487,365 8,226,878,993 4,215,906,031        1,120,623,978         345,500,000        1,466,123,978             31,146,396,366.94
864 Kiruhura District 17,829,232,534 7,021,938,999 3,714,054,486        1,213,687,000         189,000,000        1,402,687,000             29,967,913,019.53
865 Kiryandongo District 20,834,529,292 10,264,593,330 3,398,962,498        2,446,197,068         431,681,836        2,877,878,904             37,375,964,023.92
866 Kisoro District 37,678,758,625 14,129,284,816 3,622,932,818        1,110,928,000         100,000,000        1,210,928,000             56,641,904,258.41
867 Kitagwenda District 17,552,809,902 6,612,843,754 2,137,403,384           735,000,000         245,000,000           980,000,000             27,283,057,040.04
868 Kitgum District 25,247,314,443 11,799,107,338 3,380,974,297           328,407,969                              -           328,407,969             40,755,804,046.42
869 Koboko District 18,285,611,041 8,137,404,574 2,047,092,664           591,308,507           40,000,000           631,308,507             29,101,416,786.36
870 Kole District 21,302,384,832 9,756,786,106 2,663,869,699           470,000,000                              -           470,000,000             34,193,040,636.36
871 Kotido District 11,780,961,881 5,402,636,956 2,707,070,101           309,003,634                              -           309,003,634             20,199,672,572.15
872 Kumi District 24,017,081,668 14,565,952,543 4,018,534,090           849,301,916         227,000,000        1,076,301,916             43,677,870,216.74
873 Kwania District 17,309,466,953 8,179,058,444 2,781,082,208           516,876,000                              -           516,876,000             28,786,483,605.01
874 Kween District 18,393,971,009 7,660,611,224 2,497,946,113           350,886,500           20,400,000           371,286,500             28,923,814,846.19
875 Kyankwanzi District 22,582,217,340 8,149,690,869 3,056,735,528           960,906,000         220,000,000        1,180,906,000             34,969,549,737.37
876 Kyegegwa District 21,097,473,226 12,657,811,346 4,628,116,783        1,616,144,506         364,799,579        1,980,944,085             40,364,345,440.37

Page 3 of 5

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



52

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26

Annex 4: Approved Local Government Indicative Planning Figures 
Vote Code Local Government Total Total Total

for FY 2025/26
Total Wage Grants Total Non-Wage Total Development  Local Revenue  Local Revenue Total Local 

Recurrent Grants Grants NWR Development Revenue TOTAL APPROPRIATION

877 Kyenjojo District 29,711,459,101 14,425,355,457 5,743,792,171        1,593,033,247         694,037,880        2,287,071,127             52,167,677,856.32
878 Kyotera District 30,193,312,360 12,413,577,015 4,348,360,006        1,700,000,000         300,000,000        2,000,000,000             48,955,249,380.15
879 Lamwo District 15,519,136,986 10,533,868,569 3,510,410,096           441,000,000           15,000,000           456,000,000             30,019,415,650.70
880 Lira District 20,215,238,861 11,176,713,365 2,624,148,352           782,435,200         322,126,675        1,104,561,875             35,120,662,453.27
881 Luuka District 23,153,912,658 10,595,755,468 2,596,967,007           275,000,000           83,000,000           358,000,000             36,704,635,132.93
882 Luwero District 58,160,530,608 23,835,106,859 10,860,746,659        6,265,341,029         250,000,000        6,515,341,029             99,371,725,154.35
883 Lwengo District 24,113,395,437 11,313,130,660 2,681,524,433           910,471,234           74,000,000           984,471,234             39,092,521,764.28
884 Lyantonde District 16,325,768,703 6,268,055,412 2,534,924,865           739,835,520           77,000,000           816,835,520             25,945,584,500.31
885 Madi-Okollo District 15,198,317,284 7,918,582,062 1,471,339,994           600,000,000                              -           600,000,000             25,188,239,340.18
886 Manafwa District 23,945,555,823 13,120,772,819 2,032,487,551           392,628,600           43,625,400           436,254,000             39,535,070,193.56
887 Maracha District 21,424,589,024 9,757,995,615 3,178,326,712           846,930,425           15,000,000           861,930,425             35,222,841,775.46
888 Masaka District 10,670,515,469 9,213,271,508 1,566,265,156           380,954,170                              -           380,954,170             21,831,006,302.35
889 Masindi District 20,109,492,178 9,922,565,067 1,983,560,739        1,650,000,000         300,000,000        1,950,000,000             33,965,617,983.60
890 Mayuge District 36,133,897,526 16,669,896,966 3,741,314,313           963,324,323                              -           963,324,323             57,508,433,127.79
891 Mbale District 31,594,428,014 19,580,963,723 3,887,298,092           764,000,000         371,106,000        1,135,106,000             56,197,795,829.61
892 Mbarara District 20,484,119,340 12,177,177,340 3,453,232,744        1,574,143,753         121,550,000        1,695,693,753             37,810,223,176.91
893 Mitooma District 28,060,903,503 11,352,099,453 5,733,973,532           700,000,000         100,000,000           800,000,000             45,946,976,488.10
894 Mityana District 27,241,644,036 11,292,206,094 2,749,399,786        1,221,436,456         365,680,971        1,587,117,427             42,870,367,343.24
895 Moroto District 10,917,219,849 4,766,396,308 1,653,749,021           800,000,000         250,000,000        1,050,000,000             18,387,365,177.59
896 Moyo District 19,578,048,292 6,718,760,574 2,503,665,580           900,800,000           55,000,000           955,800,000             29,756,274,445.68
897 Mpigi District 25,512,013,323 12,423,236,230 2,709,567,476        1,711,172,067         280,000,000        1,991,172,067             42,635,989,096.37
898 Mubende District 21,763,089,288 10,755,282,736 3,836,822,520        1,544,489,443           55,000,000        1,599,489,443             37,954,683,987.80
899 Mukono District 41,149,745,942 22,256,280,326 3,221,738,700        3,150,000,000         350,000,000        3,500,000,000             70,127,764,967.58
900 Nabilatuk District 7,718,018,125 4,218,052,165 2,235,822,316           196,646,000                              -           196,646,000             14,368,538,605.83
901 Nakapiripirit District 9,854,450,750 4,380,416,882 3,168,023,859           314,040,000                              -           314,040,000             17,716,931,490.77
902 Nakaseke District 32,175,174,377 12,839,897,405 4,837,235,944        2,813,298,000         461,666,362        3,274,964,362             53,127,272,087.99
903 Nakasongola District 23,704,967,736 12,145,621,418 2,458,377,291        1,690,000,000         310,000,000        2,000,000,000             40,308,966,444.73
904 Namayingo District 20,754,207,490 8,178,747,744 2,762,794,712           707,320,000                              -           707,320,000             32,403,069,945.42
905 Namisindwa District 22,056,885,740 12,430,147,245 3,730,489,936           320,000,000           30,000,000           350,000,000             38,567,522,921.15
906 Namutumba District 24,573,221,005 13,419,598,885 2,790,204,738           430,534,000                              -           430,534,000             41,213,558,628.41
907 Napak District 13,795,156,779 5,680,237,643 2,699,584,538           250,000,000           68,000,000           318,000,000             22,492,978,959.42
908 Nebbi District 22,839,379,548 14,901,042,573 2,819,540,257        1,077,160,232         100,000,000        1,177,160,232             41,737,122,610.20
909 Ngora District 17,313,279,100 9,790,099,588 2,452,235,172           950,841,000                              -           950,841,000             30,506,454,860.15
910 Ntoroko District 17,879,713,628 4,308,100,321 2,367,456,752           570,000,000           50,000,000           620,000,000             25,175,270,700.57
911 Ntungamo District 47,150,582,393 19,967,812,061 4,918,268,798           863,713,250           83,522,397           947,235,647             72,983,898,899.64
912 Nwoya District 18,440,560,048 7,258,197,503 4,345,464,377        1,000,000,012           40,000,000        1,040,000,012             31,084,221,940.19
913 Obongi District 9,690,234,643 4,126,271,894 1,426,370,798           693,000,000                              -           693,000,000             15,935,877,335.60
914 Omoro District 21,933,512,795 7,176,575,926 4,002,293,092           573,394,000         100,000,000           673,394,000             33,785,775,813.49
915 Otuke District 15,048,036,227 7,094,551,670 2,067,968,164           402,667,600                              -           402,667,600             24,613,223,660.87

Page 4 of 5



53

Annex 4: Approved Local Government Indicative Planning Figures 
Vote Code Local Government Total Total Total

for FY 2025/26
Total Wage Grants Total Non-Wage Total Development  Local Revenue  Local Revenue Total Local 

Recurrent Grants Grants NWR Development Revenue TOTAL APPROPRIATION

916 Oyam District 30,133,168,468 18,642,547,548 4,113,542,364        1,120,551,636         447,000,000        1,567,551,636             54,456,810,016.11
917 Pader District 25,266,876,665 10,664,907,416 2,995,637,218        1,320,000,000           70,000,000        1,390,000,000             40,317,421,298.96
918 Pakwach District 15,888,772,984 9,142,736,906 2,299,326,550        1,320,000,000           30,000,000        1,350,000,000             28,680,836,439.92
919 Pallisa District 30,301,661,455 16,481,862,868 2,507,798,441           903,055,432           50,000,000           953,055,432             50,244,378,195.53
920 Rakai District 30,596,000,700 16,282,337,449 3,859,309,534           553,561,000                              -           553,561,000             51,291,208,683.26
921 Rubanda District 26,220,612,944 10,467,696,817 6,408,694,193           956,071,200         117,526,800        1,073,598,000             44,170,601,953.96
922 Rubirizi District 19,540,617,919 7,266,582,656 3,908,216,517           552,607,733                              -           552,607,733             31,268,024,825.03
923 Rukiga District 17,955,974,622 7,660,612,253 1,945,128,719           340,390,500             6,000,000           346,390,500             27,908,106,093.93
924 Rukungiri District 35,296,607,076 20,125,791,840 4,097,465,720           967,749,601         270,000,000        1,237,749,601             60,757,614,237.19
925 Rwampara District 16,441,603,432 7,691,477,083 3,789,184,977           774,113,773         121,000,000           895,113,773             28,817,379,264.60
926 Sembabule District 27,100,145,554 11,068,596,272 4,097,900,786           750,000,000         700,000,000        1,450,000,000             43,716,642,612.52
927 Serere District 26,339,785,356 12,436,709,566 3,342,690,574        1,087,602,000         100,000,000        1,187,602,000             43,306,787,495.64
928 Sheema District 25,816,774,202 11,139,897,373 2,128,935,616           702,731,738           10,348,457           713,080,195             39,798,687,386.85
929 Sironko District 27,418,943,794 15,915,715,763 3,678,990,490           832,437,500           43,812,500           876,250,000             47,889,900,047.56
930 Soroti District 17,381,224,750 12,901,878,482 4,094,378,788           600,000,000         100,000,000           700,000,000             35,077,482,019.81
931 Terego District 18,025,720,161 9,615,206,383 2,964,588,455           649,332,000                              -           649,332,000             31,254,846,999.73
932 Tororo District 46,072,658,300 27,894,119,155 5,231,329,193        2,565,224,600         200,000,000        2,765,224,600             81,963,331,248.20
933 Wakiso District 55,905,526,982 26,182,339,759 11,041,360,260      21,863,646,978         500,000,000      22,363,646,978           115,492,873,979.14
934 Yumbe District 32,330,204,176 18,548,782,598 6,979,671,701        1,084,462,250         290,000,000        1,374,462,250             59,233,120,725.48
935 Zombo District 19,227,300,401 10,039,561,080 3,293,588,597        1,635,153,114                              -        1,635,153,114             34,195,603,192.02

Total 3,553,533,463,859 1,738,093,575,236 562,594,954,416   274,544,371,198   54,122,935,238   328,667,306,436       6,182,889,299,946.74

Page 5 of 5

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26



54

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26






Ministry of Finance, Planning 
and Economic Development
Plot 2-8 Apollo Kaggwa Road
P. O. Box 8147, Kampala Uganda.
www.finance.go.ug

56

BUDGET SPEECH FINANCIAL YEAR 2025/26